RESIDENTS of Cape Town are struggling with flooding in their homes as the rain has been pouring non-stop for the past 24 hours. Others have experienced power outages due to the heavy rainfall. They told Daily Sun that water had been flowing into their homes. The situation was worse in Covid-19 squatter camp, where shacks were immersed in water. Resident Mandla Mayambela (45) said he had to send his family to his brother’s house in site C because he feared for their lives. “Our shack is full of water. There’s no way I’d keep my family inside. It’s bad and I don’t even think I should go back there, even after the rain stops. It’s better to find a proper house to rent. I have lost my wardrobe, bed and clothes. I managed to take out the TV and other electrical appliances,” he said. Philippi resident Lusanda Mvambo (35) said her electricity had tripped.  “I’ve had no power since yesterday because of the rain. Our streets are flooded. I can’t even go out to buy food and candles.” City of Cape Town’s disaster management spokeswoman Charlotte Powell said several areas were affected by the floods. “The worst-affected are informal settlements in Khayelitsha, Ottery, Langa, Strand, Philippi, Gugulethu, Delft and Vrygrond. Transport is providing milling and sand where possible to raise floor levels.” Powell said homes were flooded in First Avenue, Ravensmead, where a retention pond was overflowing. “In Freedom Park, Ottery, the roofs of temporary structures collapsed due to heavy rainfall. Many roadways are flooded.” Powell further said areas such as Mitchells Plain, Bridgetown, Rosebank, Mowbray, Claremont, Philippi, Hout Bay, Grassy Park, and Zeekoevlei had been affected by electricity outages. RESIDENTS of Cape Town are struggling with flooding in their homes as the rains have been pouring non-stop for the past 24 hours. Others have experienced power outages due to the heavy rainfall. The residents told Daily Sun that water has been flowing into their homes. The situation is very bad in the newly-formed Covid-19 informal settlement, where shacks are immersed in water. Mandla Mayambela (45) from Covid-19 said he had to send his family to his brother’s house in site C, because he feared for their lives. “Our shack is full of water and there’s no way I’d keep my family in it. It’s bad and I don’t even think I should even go back in that shack even after the rains stop. “It’s better to find a proper house to rent because this is no life. I have lost my wardrobe, bed and clothes. I managed to take out the TV and other electrical appliances,” he said. A resident from Philippi, Lusanda Mvambo (35), said her electricity tripped as the rains continue. “I’ve been without electricity since yesterday because of the rain. Our streets are flooded. I can’t even go out to buy food and candles,” she said. City of Cape Town’s disaster management spokeswoman, Charlotte Powell, said there were several areas affected by the floods. “The worst affected are informal settlements in Khayelitsha, Ottery, Langa, Strand, Philippi, Gugulethu, Delft, and Vryground. The city’s transport department is providing milling and sand where it is possible to do so to raise floor levels. “Homes were flooded in First Ave, Ravensmead where a retention pond overflowed. “In Freedom Park, Ottery, the roofs of temporary structures collapsed due to heavy rainfall. Many roadways across the city are flooded.” Powell also said areas such as Mitchells Plain, Bridgetown, Rosebank, Mowbray, Claremont, Philippi, Hout Bay, Grassy Park, and Zeekoevlei have been affected by power outages.