THE late King Zwelithini’s brothers have told Zulu monarch traditional prime minister Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi to stay away with his politics, and give the royal house space to sort out their affairs. Calling themselves royal house core members and rulers, angry Prince Mbonisi Zulu, Prince Mathuba Zulu and Prince Vulindlela Zulu hosted a media briefing at Umhlanga in Durban to respond to Buthelezi, who said they don’t have the authority to make announcements and perform rituals on behalf of Zulu royals. The three princes led King Zwelithini’s cleansing ceremony last year, which Buthelezi and King Misuzulu didn’t attend. They are planning to have the second one on Saturday and Sunday. The princes lashed out at Buthelezi, saying he was pushing his political agenda and dividing the royal house by organising the second cleansing ritual. They said they will not attend the ceremony. They asked King Misuzulu to dump Buthelezi and join them as his family to protect the reputation of the Zulu throne. Prince Mbonisi told Daily Sun Buthelezi was the one who was causing division in the royal house. He is the nephew of their grandfather, King Solomon, but he tells them what to do in their home. “This division has a bad impact on the Zulu nation, even prince Misuzulu, if he cares about the Zulu nation, must stop being confused by politicians. He must stop calling himself the king because he knows the procedure to install the king was not done properly. “We are calling on him to come back to us and defend the Zulu kingship’s reputation,” he said. ALSO READ |
Mamelodi taxi boss found guilty of murder! Prince Mbonisi said they don’t dispute that Buthelezi has royal blood and is the traditional prime minister. “Prime ministers don’t rule the royal house but he takes instructions from the royal house core members or rulers. “We still maintain that we still don’t have a king,” he said. Prince Vulindlela Zulu said it is hurtful that Buthelezi is ruling them as the Zulu royal family when he is a Buthelezi. “This is our home and we are old enough to rule and take decisions. You don’t see ourselves going to the Buthelezi home and ruling there.” Prince Mathuba said: “We are disappointed that we are briefing the media because we are forced by the traditional prime minister who can’t do his job properly.” Last week, Buthelezi announced the date of the second cleansing ceremony. ALSO READ |
Teen shot with his own gun! He said Prince Mbonisi and others don’t have authority to announce and perform royal house rituals, adding that the one which will be done by King Misuzulu at the weekend is official. Prince Mbonisi’s lawyer Eric Mabuza told Daily Sun King Zwelithini’s succession is still a big challenge as there are three outstanding legal matters. “The first case is the review application in Pretoria where my client, a member of the ruling family, is challenging the decision by the President to recognise King Misuzulu as the king. That case is taking some time to conclude and we can estimate six to eight months’” he said. “The second case is in the Supreme Court of Appeal where my client is applying for leave to appeal to challenge the decision of the outcomes in the Pietermaritzburg High Court regarding the coronation processes.” Mabuza said the third case that is challenging is the one brought by former judge Jerome Ngwenya, who is the chair of the Ingonyama Trust, where he is asking the court to accept the late King Zwelithini’s will.