A SPIRITUAL concoction from a certain man has left his girlfriend and a tenant dead. Following the incident, the family is looking for answers from police as the suspect is still roaming the streets of Emdeni, Soweto like nothing ever happened. They also told Daily Sun they didn’t understand how he had escaped without a scratch, even though he claimed he’d tried to help. Nolubabalo Mcwabeni (31) from Phiri, Soweto, told Daily Sun the incident took place on 6 December last year. She said her 36-year-old sister Bongiwe Mabaso had slept over at her boyfriend’s place the night before the incident. The man allegedly had a mixture of petrol, paraffin and potassium permanganate, then lit three candles and placed them around the bucket. Nolubabalo said no one questioned him, as he is a sangoma and said he just wanted to remove bad spirits. A broom was allegedly used to stir the mixture and it somehow caught fire from one of the candles. “The fire was just too much and the two couldn’t get out of the house,” said Nolubabalo. Another sister, Gugulethu Ramasetla (47) said the family hadn’t yet recovered from the tragedy and repeated how sad they were to see the man roaming the streets of Soweto. “The police said they could not arrest him because it seemed like children were the ones putting all that together,” said Gugulethu. “We’re not at peace and don’t think we’ll ever be because we lost an important part of our lives,” she said. George Manyike, the husband of one of the victims, said he hadnt been able to cope since his wife died. He said he was taking a nap when he heard screams but when he tried to help, it was already too late. “Life hasn’t been the same since she died and I don’t think I’ll ever get over the fact that I wasn’t able to save my wife. Now I have to dust myself off for the kids and it’s hard,” he said. Othula Foundation founder Ntokozo Gumbi said she was touched by what the families had gone through and wanted to find a way to help them. She said her organisation would go organise a hike to raise funds for them. She said there would also be picnics and food stalls. The money would be used to help renovate the family’s house. Lieutenant-colonel Mavela Masondo said an inquest had been opened and investigations were ongoing.