THE Democratic Alliance (DA) has approached the US crime-busting unit, Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), to probe President Cyril Ramaphosa for possible money laundering. This is in relation to the robbery that happened at Phala Phala Farm in Limpopo where millions of foreign currency was allegedly stolen. This is part of DA’s multi-pronged steps to hold the president accountable for his alleged cover-up of the robbery in which former spy boss, Arthur Fraser, alleged $4 million (about R60 million) was stolen. DA leader John Steenhuisen, in a press conference to announce the nine-step action to hold Ramaphosa to account, said the party has written to the FBI asking them to investigate the transaction involving that country’s currency. “Specifically, we have requested that the FBI considers investigating the source of the funds and whether the money was brought into South Africa legitimately and declared to the appropriate authorities. “We have recommended that the ledgers or journals, which would have recorded the alleged sale of wild game at an auction, be requested from the president, to determine the identities of those involved in the suspicious cash transactions,” he said. Steenhuisen said the cash transaction within South Africa involving $4 million (about R60 million) was deeply suspicious. This was more so since the cash was then hidden in furniture, and its theft investigated off-the-record and covered up. The opposition leader called on Ramaphosa to take the nation into confidence as this saga was damaging the image of the country and scaring off investors. He said even though the party was not yet calling for him to step down as other political parties have, the longer Ramaphosa remained silent, the louder these calls would grow. He further called for declarations of interest of Ramaphosa to be made public to establish whether he had declared the Phala Phala Farm, which he confirmed that he was involved in its operations. Steenhuisen said Ramaphosa had already incriminated himself when he revealed that he was involved in the selling of game on the farm as this was in breach of the ethics code, which bars him from undertaking paid work as a president.