ACTOR Hungani Ndlovu and his wife, Stephanie, recently opened up about a tragic ordeal. The couple shared the experience of losing a pregnancy in a video which was posted on their YouTube channel. THEY SAID THEY FOUND OUT THEY WERE PREGNANT IN JULY 2020 AND THE PAIN OF LOSING THE BABY STILL CUTS DEEP. However, they are now ready to talk about it. “It was a lot... it was overwhelming,” said Hungani in the video. Stephanie, who is a presenter and actress, said out of excitement, they first called their parents and siblings to share the good news before they had their first check-up. But she received bad news when she went to the doctor. “I already had my video camera out because I wanted to record it. “I take my camera out, it’s on record and it wasn’t even a minute and she literally did the scan and she said I’m sorry, there’s no embryo,” said Stephanie.  ALSO READ : Mother City’s wives stir drama galore! She said the doctor told her it was a blighted ovum, which occurs when an early embryo never develops or stops developing, leaving an empty gestational sac. Stephanie said the doctor told her to take a moment, but she didn’t and she jumped off the bed. “I did not cry, nothing. I literally just said: ‘Okay’ and she’s like: ‘No, take a moment’ and I was like: ‘Nope, I’m good, what do we do now?’ “That’s sort of my coping mechanism and strategy in life.” Stephanie was then meant to have a procedure to clean her womb, but as it was during the Covid-19 pandemic, she was given the same medication used for home abortions. “She told me the specifics of how it needs to be taken and said it will not be pleasant in terms of pain and so forth,” said Stephanie. “Once that medication kicked in, there’s these kind of contractions that happen so that it can push everything out, but it was traumatising. “To this day, it remains clear in terms of the pain I was in,” said Stephanie. Hungani said watching his wife was heartbreaking and traumatic. “It’s two years later, but it’s like it was yesterday. “For me, it was very... if I can use the term disabling, because I felt useless. “Like I’m a body in this space adding no value to this person’s life experience and that is probably the worst I felt in a very long time. It was difficult,” he said. The couple said they both consulted with therapists. Hungani told Daily Sun they both have their therapists on speed-dial. “However, we have an open line of communication and have learnt that we deal with situations differently, so being aware of that helps us a lot,” he said. Speaking on the medication his wife was given, Hungani said: “Locally, we think there could definitely be more education around these issues but as a society, we need to first deal with the stigmas and misinformation that is out there.” 