A COP from Inchanga outside Durban, KZN, has been arrested for allegedly shooting and killing his wife, Thobeka Msomi. The body of the 40-year-old, who was teaching at Inchanga Primary School, was discovered by his brother at home on Thursday, 23 June, when he came to pick up her children’s lunch box. It alleged that before Thobeka was shot, there was a heated argument between a woman and man who came out of the house after a gunshot went off. Thobeka’s relative (28) said they believed she was killed by the father of her children. She said they had always known that the husband was violent, though Thobeka never complained of abuse. “This man is a monster. He shot my cousin and stayed with her body for hours. He only told Thobeka’s brother in the morning. When he arrived at her house, the suspect led him to her lifeless body in the garage, and told him that she was shot by robbers,” said the relative, adding that the brother then told the family. “That is not right. When we asked around, neighbours told us there was a heated argument between Thobeka and his husband before they heard a gunshot.” The relative added that neighbours heard Thobeka telling her husband to kill her instead because he could not chase her out of her house just because he wanted to bring over his girlfriend. “The man was very violent and everyone is scared of him. My cousin decided to move her kids out of the house to live with their grandmother because what their father was doing was traumatising. She moved them after her husband shot and wounded his friend in their house over a small argument.” She said he was never arrested for that incident. “We suspect he has connections because he is a cop. We pray that this time, justice prevails because my cousin did not deserve to die like that,” she said. Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said cops received a complaint of a murder at Fredville, and proceeded to the scene. Upon arrival, they were shown the body of a woman with a gunshot wound to the forehead. “A 44-year-old suspect was arrested on the scene for murder and will appear in court soon,” said Ngcobo.