Cyclists and runners plead for safety while using roads in Tshwane. The two groups said that motorists should be vigilant about them and that police should secure their safety from robbers who target them. They cycled on Friday, 17 June from Centurion to submit a memorandum of demand to the South African Police Service and Tshwane's MMC for Community Safety outside the Tshwane House. The cyclists were joined by marathon runners who also said they were tired of being robbed of their valuables including takkies at knife or gunpoint. Some cyclists told Daily Sun that when they are riding, they will be approached by thugs mostly driving bakkies as they will stop next to them and point them with firearms demanding bicycles and their valuables. They said these thugs will take their takkies leaving them to walk barefoot .A victim, Philip Ralehlaka, who is a road runner and a cyclist as well said he was robbed at gunpoint in 2016 by thugs who were driving a bakkie. Sthembiso Motabo, also a cyclist, said: "We are requesting the City to protect us when cycling and running. Thugs are targeting us and people who are walking, especially in the mornings and evenings are the main targets. We are pleading with police to be visible in hotspots because we have been robbed a lot," he said. Phumla Nkwani said: "I was robbed of my valuables in 2020 when I was cycling. It was traumatizing and it took a while for me to get over it. "Athletic Gauteng North Road Running chairman, Enoch Skosana, said they are protesting because they are tired of being robbed. He said thugs target them, especially in the mornings and evenings."We are pleading with police to protect us," he said. Chairman of the City of Tshwane Athletic Club, Masilo Mogotsi, said: "We are raising awareness and to request assistance from the City and police regarding the safety of cyclists and runners. There are quite a several incidents of cyclists and runners losing their valuables and bicycles to thugs." Brigadier Terrence Naidoo representing Police in Tshwane receiving the memorandum on behalf of SAP said: "We will take in your request, your safety is our priority in terms of security. "MMC for Community of Safety in Tshwane, Grandi Theunissen, who received the memorandum on behalf of the City said: "From my office, we will attend to this and will arrange with your leadership for a meeting so that we can come up with a sort of solution."He said the City must protect the cyclists and runners. Some of the hotspots where cyclists and runners say they get robbed were on the Solomon Mahlangu Drive and at other places such as Olievenhoutbosch, Waterkloof, Lyttelton, Irene, Groenkloof Nature Reserve, Centurion, Boschkop and Moreleta.