FORMER Generations: The Legacy actress Asanda Foji is officially off the market. She got married to her long-term partner in the Eastern Cape, and shared photos of the three-day affair on her social media platforms. Asanda also revealed that her new name, given to her by her husband’s family, was Ambesiwe. She shared photos from the first day, saying it was ukwamkelwa komkhwenyana – the welcoming of the groom. “When my husband promised he’d make me his wife five years ago, I thought to myself: ‘I’ve heard that line before’. When he finally asked for my hand in marriage and sent his uncles to negotiate lobola in 2019, I thought: ‘Okay, this could really end in happiness’. But when he and his uncles came back again last week to rightfully claim his wife and their makoti, I thought: ‘My king, my baby love, my nunus, my soulmate has really kept his word and did right by me after every heartbreak, setback and evil we’ve had to fight against together!’,” wrote Asanda. ALSO READ : RHOD star JoJo shows off her tattooed body  On the second day, she left her home for her husband’s home. “Leaving my mother’s house this day, I swear on my mother’s grave, on God, in Jesus Name that I will build my home and carry my cross kowam umtshato. And no human being and unholy assignments shall turn me backwards,” she wrote. Then on the third day, Asanda was given her new clothes as umakoti, as well as a new name. “Day 3: Last day. This date was changed so many times. My husband and I were both starting to doubt if it’ll ever happen. But what God puts in place, no man can ever remove or change. What is meant to be, no one and nothing can stop. My soulmate and I were finally blessed with what we’ve wanted the most for years, and it could not have been possible without our Lord,” she wrote. Her followers congratulated her on becoming Mrs Mandindi. A post shared by Asanda Foji Mandindi (@asandafoji)  A post shared by Asanda Foji Mandindi (@asandafoji) A post shared by Asanda Foji Mandindi (@asandafoji)  A post shared by Asanda Foji Mandindi (@asandafoji) 