CONFEDERATION of African Football (Caf) president Patrice Motsepe is optimistic about the state of South African football, despite the recent concerns raised by Bafana Bafana coach Hugo Broos. Broos made headlines when he heavily criticised the standard of the Premier Soccer League (PSL) He bemoanied ta lack of quality players in Mzansi. This was after his Bafana lost their opening Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier against Morocco 2-1 in Rabat earlier this month. The Belgian-born coach has since apologised for his utterances which left many people furious. Motsepe admits that Mzansi football isn’t at the level it should be. He also insists that the future looks brighter. Motsepe challenged the so-called big clubs in the country such as Mamelodi Sundowns, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates to make their mark in continental football. “I think South African football needs Pirates, Chiefs and Sundowns, all of these clubs, to be at their best on the continent,” said Motsepe. “I have faith, I believe Chiefs, Pirates and all these clubs will win trophies. I can tell you that if you look at how Sundowns won the Caf Champions League, it’s achievable. “People have an exaggerated perception of how good Sundowns are. They are winning but have got to keep proving themselves in Africa. “I believe Chiefs have what it takes to win trophies, Pirates will win trophies and we need these clubs to compete on the continent for South African football to improve. “Having said that, I’m confident local football will grow and improve despite the current challenges. It will be among the best on the continent.” Motsepe stressed the importance of developing football in the country properly at grassroots level to ensure the standard improves substantially. “There is world-class talent in SA, but a part of that is to invest in our youth,” added Motsepe. “We should not talk about that only, we should allocate resources and funding and it starts with schools and amateur football. “I’m proud of the work they are doing in the PSL. I’m proud of Pirates, Chiefs and all other teams in the league. Football is also an expression of the ability of SA players to compete against the best in the continent and the best in the world and win.”