YOU must hate yourself first for you to love the African National Congress (ANC). These were the chilling words of an ANC Gauteng elective conference delegate at the closing of the conference when it emerged that the party would not be able to pay accommodation for all the delegates for the night. This after the conference went on beyond the scheduled time after it was derailed by branch disputes that led to a court challenge. As the conference drew to a close in the early hours of Monday morning, 27 June, National Executive Committee (NEC) member and party Parliament chief whip, Pemmy Majodina, irked delegates when she revealed that the party could only pay for 10 rooms per region and the rest should pretty much find their own accommodation. Several delegates strongly objected to the suggestion and complained of fatigue.They pointed out that among the delegates were elderly people who had not had the luxury to freshen up. They pointed out how NEC members were accommodated in five-star hotels, but did not care about ordinary delegates. One delegate, who didn’t introduce herself by name, hit the nail on the head when she told Majodina how insulting the suggestion was to delegates who had been brought from their regions for the business of the party, but were now left high and dry. “So, it simply says the ANC does not take its members seriously and the issue of us stuck here, tired and never refreshed for the sake of the love of ANC. It simply tells us that you hate yourself to love the ANC. You must hate yourself to love the ANC,” said the delegate. On a side note, some delegates were ready to admit that the party was headed for less than 50% in the 2024 elections and that newly elected ANC Gauteng chairman Panyaza Lesufi must prepare himself to lead an opposition in the seventh administration. Delegates admitted that greed and proximity to state resources and a lack of the desire to serve the people was at the root of the party’s leaders, who are known to flash their wealth in the face of abject poverty. Despite its repeated rhetoric of unity and renewal, the ANC keeps digging its hole deeper and alienating voters.