BAFANA Bafana coach Hugo Broos has once again raised his concerns about the standard and quality of the Premier Soccer League (PSL) after his side’s disappointing start to the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifiers. Bafana recently lost their opening Afcon qualifier 2-1 against Morocco in Rabat, a match that according to Broos, was another big indication of how far behind his team is compared to the heavyweight on the continent. Bafana might end up qualifying for the Afcon scheduled for the Ivory Coast next year because their group only have three teams after the banishment of Zimbabwe, but Broos insists the big problem will remain unsolved. The Belgian, who is never shy to speak his mind, insists that South African football will not improve if more players decide to remain within the country’s borders and shy away from the challenge of playing in Europe for bigger teams. “Let's face the problem that the level of the PSL is not high enough,” said Broos during a media briefing in Nasrec on Tuesday. "We don't have those quality players that are playing in Europe. Percy Tau is one of the best players in South Africa, but he can't succeed in Al Ahly. This is not good. “We don’t have the quality of players that our last three opponents have. Ghana has most of their players in Europe, France I don’t have to even explain and then Morocco, they only had one player who didn’t play overseas, and he plays for the Caf Champions League winners, Wydad Casablanca. “I think this shows enough, all these players are playing in big European leagues. We don’t have those players. We can look at what Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates are doing in the Caf competitions but they both lost.” Broos says South Africa needs to take a leaf out of Belgium’s book and work on exporting more of their talent, something that will improve the level of the national team and eventually the PSL. “If South Africa is not facing that and going on with what you have been doing for the past 20 years, firing the coaches and thinking the next one will be better and will have results without solving the problem, then I will be the 17th coach in 20 years who will be fired in a few months,”’ added Broos. “We have to sit together in this country and face the problem. We have to see what we can do about this problem, not only me but all the coaches and everyone involved in South African football. We did it in my country, Belgium.”