 SOUTH
AFRICANS should brace for more darkness as Eskom announced the implementation
of Stage 6 load shedding. The current
stage of load shedding comes as the illegal strike by Eskom workers persists. In a
statement, the Power Utility detailed the new schedules of load shedding which
will include the newly announced stage six. The
unlawful industrial action on going, Eskom said stage 6 load shedding will be
implemented from 16:00 until 22:00 on Tuesday evening, 28 June. Stage 4 will
then continue to be implemented until midnight. In a media
statement, the utility said, “Stage 4 load shedding will then be implemented
at22:00 — 00:00. Load shedding will then be reduced to Stage 2 until 05:00 on
Wednesday morning. “From 05:00
until 16:00 on Wednesday load shedding will be implemented at Stage 4. load
shedding 6 will then again be implemented at 4:00 — 10:00 p.m. tomorrow.” “This is
due to the unlawful and unprotected labour action, which has caused widespread
disruption to Eskom’s power plants. This has compelled Eskom to continue taking
precautionary measures to conserve generation capacity and safeguard the plant
from damage. There is a high risk that the stage of load shedding may have to
change at any time, depending on the state of the plant.” On Tuesday
during a virtual media briefing, the leadership of Eskom hinted that there
would be stage 6 load shedding. The strike,
which is taking place at various Eskom power stations it is also said to be
turning violent. Eskom CEO
Andre De Ryter also said that the strike in some areas has taken a dangerous
stance as there is severe intimidation and a vehicle is said to have torched
some of the houses belonging to Eskom senior staff being petrol bombed. "We
have seen peaceful protests at Kendall and Komati where we only have one unit
operating fine, we have seen peaceful protest protests. "But
there are no resources for ash and dust handling and no blunt operators so we
have exposure there. At Khusile we have all employees on-site at Lethabo we
have seen some pretty severe incidents of intimidation for homes of large
operators who have been attacked by petrol bombs overnight." 