RIA Ledwaba vowed to bring imminent change when she becomes president of the South African Football Association. Ledwaba revealed during a media briefing at the FNB Stadium on Wednesday that she has overwhelming support to win the Safa presidential race, and that has caused panic amongst other candidates. She also wants more football legends like Mark Fish and Brian Baloyi to get involved in grassroot football, especially school sports. Ledwaba is battling it out with Danny Jordaan and Solly Mohlabeng for the Safa presidential position. “There is no funding for structures in charge of grassroots football in the country. Fifa gives the association huge grants every year, we want that money to be utilised for regions. We want legends to get involved in school football.” Ledwaba made it clear that she is still going ahead with her court case against the Association in a bid to stop the Safa elective congress on 25 June. She filed applications to the Gauteng and Western Cape High Courts to stop the presidential election. Ledwaba revealed that there are a lot of irregularities at Safa, and she want to change that to pave the way for the next generation. She made it clear that she is ready to challenge Danny Jordaan head on to win the presidential race. “You need to have balls to challenge Danny and you need to be firm. I have gone through the Safa structures to be where I am, and I learnt a lot of things. I have never considered my president when I made a decision, what would he say. For me it was never about individuals, but to uplift the standard of football in the country.” Ledwaba revealed that Jordaan didn’t take her calls when she told him that she was approved for the elections. She was instead subjected to a Disciplinary hearing at Safa. “When I was approved, he was the first person I phoned, but he didn’t take my calls. I then sent him a WhatsApp and he said I will come and see you, but never happened. He then responded saying I heard you had a meeting to destabilize Safa, so my meeting with you won’t work. He then said I am not going to have a meeting with you because you are not a candidate.  I am subjected to a DC and one of the charges is that I have written a letter to the minister.  I am saying there is no charge here because I have done nothing wrong.” 