THE family of two women who were killed in a crash between a bus and a truck, that claimed the lives of 15 people and left many others injured, is still traumatised. The accident happened near Bundu Inn outside Ga-Rankuwa, Tshwane, on Friday, 10 June. Family member Elias Sepeng (47) from Rabokala in the North West said his cousin Letta Phalatse (31) who was working in Centurion, Tshwane, was among those who died in the accident. He said his other cousin, Maggie Sepeng (50), from the same area, also died in the crash. He said the family was devastated and heartbroken as they had lost two of their loved ones. He told Daily Sun that after visiting the scene where his cousins died, he wasn’t eating well because of what he saw as there was blood everywhere and bodies were lying all over the area. “We didn’t believe Letta had died as on Thursday before the accident, she was telling us to make sure that we have joined funeral policies as she was not prepared to struggle burying us. It looks like she saw death coming,” he said.  He said Letta is survived by two daughters, aged five and two. “Letta was very young, vibrant and an intelligent young woman, who loved her mother and sibling,” said Elias. He said they were still traumatised, especially her mother and sister. Letta’s mother Maria Phalatse (56), who was struggling to speak, said it was hard to accept losing a daughter in such a horrific way. Letta’s aunt, Damarie Mojasagwe (64), said: “We are hurt as a family. She was a good person and loved her family.” Caroline Pege (66), Maggie’s sister, said her death had left them heartbroken. “Maggie was a good person and was jolly,” she said. She said Maggie is also survived by two children. The family said the two women were buried on Saturday, 18 June. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula visited the accident scene and the patients at Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital on Sunday, 12 June. The Tshwane acting district commissioner, Brigadier Samuel Thine, said: “Police are still investigating the accident.”