THE public protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane has fired
back at President Cyril Ramaphosa over her suspension calling it unlawful and
unconstitutional as well as demanding that the president reverse the decision,
or she will slap him with a court challenge. In a hard-hitting letter addressed to the president and
copied to National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and public
protector deputy Advocate Kholeka Gcaleka, Mkhwebane demanded that Ramaphosa
reverse the decision by no later than Tuesday, 14 June, 5pm failing which she
will challenge the suspension in court without notifying the president. In the letter that surfaced on Monday June 13 night and
dated on the same day, Mkhwebane argued that Ramaphosa had suspended her before
an inquiry to probe her fitness to hold office by parliamentary committee had
started. She also argued that by suspending her before the court
ruling on her application to block her suspension by Ramaphosa unnecessarily
placed undue pressure to the courts. Ramaphosa suspended Mkhwebane last week Thursday, 9 June, a
day before the Western Cape High Court delivered its ruling on her application
to interdict a parliamentary committee to probe her. The ruling also ruled against her application to stop
Ramaphosa from suspending her. And now Mkhwebane in her letter to the president is arguing
that his conduct to suspend her before the ruling had the effect of undermining
and scandalizing the court in that this would open up speculation that the
court might have informed him of its decision. Mkhwebane further stated that this was more in the wake of a
text to parliament lawyers by self-proclaimed law analyst Ishmael Abramjee on
another matter involving her which was still being investigated by Chief
Justice Raymond Zondo. Abramjee in the text pre-empted a court ruling. "You failed in your duty to protect the court from such
unwarranted attacks. Even if you may not be guilty of criminal contempt of
court because of some technicality, which is denied, you would be in any event
be liable for breaching section 165 of the Constitution, in that, as an organ
of state, by your conduct you undermined the judicial authority of the court. "You failed to protect the court to ensure their
independence, impartiality, dignity and effectiveness. You undermined the
binding effect of court order on all persons to whom and organs of state to
which they apply, which include the president," she fired back. Mkhwebane pointed out that the only explanation to
Ramaphosa's conduct in rushing to suspend her was in retaliation for the
questions she sent him as part of her investigations into his alleged cover up
of the robbery in his Phala Phala Farm in Limpopo. The suspended public protector as part of her investigations
into the robbery following a complaint laid with her office, sent pointed
questions to the president in relation to the robbery and has given him a time
frame in when to respond. She argued that the move to suspend her was to serve a
personal purpose and not a constitutional one. The embattled public protector further argued that even the
Presidential Minute to suspend would have been illegal because the court had
not pronounced in her application to interdict the parliamentary process and
therefore the committee had not started with its process which would have
opened the path for her suspension. "The said decision is therefore plainly illegal for the
same reasons as stated in preceding paragraphs. In acting aforesaid, in
contempt of court and or breach of section 165 of the Constitution, the
suspension of also ipso facto illegal, unconstitutional and therefore invalid
for those additional reasons," she said. 