JAY Israel Senior says he has gained enemies since he started sharing his experiences as a former occultist. Speaking to Daily Sun, Israel, originally from Zimbabwe, vowed that criticisms and threats would not stop him from sharing his experiences of evil magic. Earlier this week, the People’s Paper ran an article about parts of his confessions, including getting married to a mermaid in his quest for power, riches and fame. This after he shared a series of short videos, on his Facebook page, about his experience as a member of a cult. Israel, who publicly said he left the cult in 2019, also gave a statement to the CRL Rights Commission in 2020, when it was probing allegations of abuse in churches. And, investigations are still ongoing. He said: “The Bible says they overcame by the word of their testimony and in the name of Jesus. The power is in your tongue.” ALSO READ | 'I married a MERMAID for power, riches and
fame!' Israel added that his confessions formed part of alerting people about the existence of cults and the sacrifices involved. “I was living a flashy life and the leader of a mega church in the Eastern Cape. It wasn’t easy when I decided to leave the cult. I was terrified. Leaving the cult can even lead to death. I was haunted by evil spirits. I was on the verge of committing suicide when I had a personal encounter with Jesus. I saw a vision and I have since turned my life to Jesus,” he said. And following his confessions, he has been receiving threats and criticism over phone calls, he shared. “I will stand on my truth, no matter what happens, and I will not lodge any criminal charges against anyone because my case is between me and God. This is a personal journey I have embarked on, which also includes enlightening my fellow African brothers and sisters to know that such things are happening. But I’m not doing this for people to see that I have changed; that is between me and God. But I believe my experience could change someone else’s life, who is stuck in a fake church and fearful to leave,” added Israel.