THE National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS) says it’s aware of unsigned messages and posters making the rounds on social media calling for a National Shut Down. Police spokeswoman Colonel Athlenda Mathe said those behind these messages are warned and reminded that prohibiting people’s freedom of movement is a criminal offence. “Members of the public are therefore cautioned against spreading such messages that seek to mobilize communities to respond to the shutdown. The NATJOINTS is calling on all people in South Africa to work together with law enforcement authorities to uphold and enforce the law. Any action aimed at contravening the law will be dealt with accordingly within the ambit of the law,” Mathe said. While the Gauteng Provincial Community Police Board said it was aware of the social media campaigns for a National shutdown on 10 June, and could confirm that the matter was being monitored and handled by the provincial police teams. “CPF structures are to remain vigilant with eyes and ears during these periods and not engage in activities beyond CPF mandate,” the GPCPB said. The NATJOINTS reportedly met on Wednesday, 8 June where they were briefed by the Intelligence Coordinating Committee (ICC) on the validity of the call for a National Shutdown. “The Intelligence community is closely monitoring the situation and the associated risks. With this said, law enforcement officers have been deployed and are on high alert to prevent and combat any forms of criminality,” added. National shutdown organized on Twitter is similar to a trip organized in a whatsapp group, they both end up not happening. pic.twitter.com/ruvNAwYafk  This National shutdown will happen on Twitter since the taxi industry and trade unions distanced themselves pic.twitter.com/3MvspwA28s  My fellow South Africans so 10 June the national shutdown is it still or not ? pic.twitter.com/kfQ4jND0CB  Hope this National Shutdown does not lead to looting and people losing their livea pic.twitter.com/VGpuWh9hnN    