AFTER she surrendered her Spar Women’s 10km win in Durban yesterday, Namibian, Halelia Johannes, bemoaned fatigue as the reason for her under performance where she finished second, behind Tadu Nare. Johannes won the opening Spar 10km Women’s Grand Prix race in Gqeberha on 28 May in 31:53, but could not live up to the same standard in KwaZulu-Natal yesterday where Nare was too strong for her. Ethiopian, Nare shoved off just a minute from the time she recorded in Gqeberha (32:11) where she finished second. But she was in tip-top shape yesterday, winning in 31:50 to beat Johannes in a race that was flat and mainly dominated by elite runners. Nare and Johannes ran together for the better part of the race in Durban, just next to the Moses Mabhida Stadium, and the Ethiopian pulled off in the last kilometre to beat the Namibian who finished second in 31:59. Gebre finished third in 32:17 while Van Zyl was fourth in 33:03 and Kesa Molotsane of Murray & Robberts came fifth in a minute later and Caroline Mhandu was sixth in 33:18. “I was not feeling well,” said a hapless Johannes. “I suffered a lot at the airport. I found myself running up and down chasing after flights. I woke up in time at home in Namibia, but somehow I missed my flight to Joburg. “And, I waited for five hours for another flight. And when I arrived in Joburg, I missed my flight to Durban, and again had to wait for another five hours. “When I arrived in Joburg, I was exhausted. I did not rest enough, this is why I was feeling dizzy this morning (Sunday) when I woke up at 4am, and had a headache. I went into this race tired. “My body is still not okay. I just wanted to make sure I finish the race. I thank God that I finished the race and in second position.” Johannes is preparing herself for the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, England from 28 July, where she will be defending her women’s marathon title. Nick Bester must be smiling from ear to ear after his Nedbank Athletics Club runners dominated the top four in yesterday’s Grand Prix. Nare, Johannes, Selan Gabre and Irvette van Zyl – all Nedbank Athletics Club runners, finished within the top four. Nare, the defending Grand Prix champion, said her plan was to win the race emphatically and had to it give 100% attention and determined to grab this one after having sprinted for 9km. “I wanted to sprint at the 8km mark, but realised all the runners were with me toward 9km mark, and had to increase speed, as competition was getting tough,” said the 21-year-old runner who travels for 25-hours between Addis Ababa and South Africato particpate at the Spar races. She said her next plan is to run all the Spar races in order to collect as many points as possible to stand in line to defending her title. “One thing I’m sure of is that there is a lot of competition and we’re challenging each other,’ she said, adding that she will not rest on her laurels. “I’m confidence that I’ll win it if I give it my 100% attention. “However, everyone reacts differently to competitions, and the body also reacts differently too compared to how I felt last year.”