MORE people have come forward to open fraud cases against Skeem Saam actor Sebasa Mogale. “I can confirm that cases of fraud have been opened at the Polokwane Police Station by different people following their alleged investments in Bitcoin through Mogale,” said Limpopo police spokesman, Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo. He told Daily Sun they are investigating five cases against Sebasa. “The police are investigating a total of five cases with an amount of over R800 000. The investigations, which must also include any transactions that m ight have been made, are still proceeding and once completed, the cases will be taken to the senior public prosecutor for further instructions or a decision. “The suspect in these cases has not yet been arrested,” said Mojapelo. He encouraged people with similar complaints to open cases. On Saturday, a group of people went to Polokwane cop shop to open a case against Sebasa but they were allegedly turned away. ALSO READ: Singer Nomcebo and Jerusalema battle continues! One of the alleged victims, Tryphosa Kganyago, said: “The police refused to open a case against Sebasa. They told us we don’t have evidence and that the case is not serious. The police already felt we didn’t have a case.” But Mojaepelo said: “The police cannot refuse to open cases. Only the courts may determine if there is a case or not. The complainants must go back to the police station and open the cases.” Daily Sun understands that more than 100 people were allegedly scammed by Sebasa. He allegedly promised them huge returns on Bitcoin investments and it’s alleged he failed to pay them back. Daily Sun tried to reach Sebasa but he failed to answer his phone. He also did not respond to text messages. Sebasa’s legal representative said: “I can confirm frivolous and baseless charges of fraud have been laid against my client. He reserves his right to institute legal action for damages against all parties who have injured his name.” He said he couldn’t comment any further at this stage as it was a legal matter.