THABI KHUZWAYO is in a bitter war of words with former Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Brilliant Khuzwayo. While Brilliant denies everything, Thabi is adamant. SHE HAS ACCUSED BRILLIANT OF TAKING HER MONEY AND STEALING HER BUSINESS IDEA! “I approached Brilliant in September last year with the aim of forming a partnership with him,” Thabi said.Thabi owns an NPO called Zanok’phila, which was established in 2011. It focuses on fighting drug addiction and advocates for the progressive change in her community of KZN. Thabi also works as a team member at Toyota Boshoku in Durban. “When I met him, I was already working with kids who are abusing drugs. ALSO READ:Pitori PUNANI dancer hits out! “I asked Brilliant to assist my organisation with sport since he’s a sportsman.”She claims at the time, Brilliant, who is not a relative, was down and out. “His task was to take young boys on a boot camp and train them so they can stay away from drugs. “He was also supposed to mentor the boys and organise tournaments.” According to Thabi, everything seemed fine until Brilliant started asking for financial favours.“He became a financial burden,” said Thabi.“He wanted me to organise food, transport and all the other expenses for him.”She said she even paid for photo shoots and took him to schools, and from time to time, he’d ask her for non-business related loans. “I gave him the money because I thought he’d eventually help me as a partner but that never happened. Instead, he stole my idea,” she said. ALSO READ:Uzalo actress: Stop kissing me on my lips! Daily Sun has seen some of the text messages from Brilliant asking for financial favours from Thabi. “My sister, please lend me R200. My soccer team is going to a funeral and I need to organise transport. I’m their only hope. I have R800 and the taxi is R1 000,” read a text message.In another text message, he wrote: “Can you please pay for my flight? I’m supposed to go to Joburg for a programme but now I don’t have money for a flight ticket. I’m desperate. I will appreciate any amount.”She said the agreement was never written down and was only verbal.She said a few weeks ago, he sent her a message telling her he would be launching a boot camp for boys. “I was shocked! That’s my idea and he even used my photos to market his event. “I know it’s my concept because I included him in my proposals,” said Thabi.“I’m hurt and disappointed because he used me.”Brilliant said the concept might be the same but he was only concentrating on sport.“Sport is my field. Thabi is not into sport and her focus is on drug abuse. It’s true that I worked with her, but she never helped me in any way. “My boot camp started this year and I’ve already secured several sponsors. I will be inviting her,” said Brilliant.