NOBUHLE Mahlangu’s life changed forever. The 31-year-old from KwaMhlanga was a passenger in the full Putco that caught fire on the Moloto Road in May last year. She suffered serious burns on her legs, arms, and the right side of her head, but she said none of the promises made by the Mpumalanga provincial government and the bus company have been fulfilled. On the day of the crash, her son (4) who was travelling with her, also suffered some burns but he got out of the burning bus quickly. Nobuhle underwent skin grafting operations. After three weeks in ICU, she said she learnt that on 1 June last year, the bus company and the Mpumalanga provincial government made an agreement. The company promised to compensate the injured and the families of those who lost loved ones. The agreement, which was seen by Daily Sun, stated that those who were seriously injured would be taken to Milpark Hospital and R100 000 would be paid for funeral expenses per family for those who died. It says Putco will replace the earnings of the dead and the four critically injured per month, or a monthly minimum of R10 000 to be contributed to each family pending finalisation of RAF processes. The arrangement further stated that the critically injured would be transferred to Milpark Hospital with full medical expenses, not exceeding R1 million for each patient to be incurred by Putco. Nobuhle said she was never transferred to Milpark. She said she was treated for three months at the Steve Biko Academic Hospital in Tshwane.  “Doctors at Steve Biko told me I was going to be transferred to Milpark as there are specialists who deal with burns. A woman named Norma from Putco told me the beds are full at Milpark.” She said she’s due for an operation to repair her right hand that she is now unable to use, but she’s on a long waiting list at Steve Biko. Putco’s business development executive, Matlakala Motloung said the premier of Mpumlanga said that people shouldn’t over claim. “If you are earning R2 000, why must we give you 10 000? We agreed we will give them R5 000. Those who were injured, we gave them money until they were discharged from hospital. But after being discharged, we can’t give them money. We tried our best, but unfortunately it was out of our hands. “The treating doctor must be satisfied that the patient is in a position that they can be able to travel to the next hospital.” She said as the country was still under lockdown, doctors couldn’t move people without securing a bed for the patient.