THE search for the missing six-year-old Khayalethu Magadla continues. Khayalethu went missing after he fell into a manhole in Dlamini, Soweto on Sunday, 12 June. Soweto residents have been looking for him with the help of the City of Joburg’ Emergency Management Services team, which resumed the search on Thursday, 16 June. But they were unable to make a breakthrough. ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba visited the Magadla family after he heard about the incident. He reassured them ActionSA will do everything to make sure the boy is found. He promised the family they’ll be compensated as this was negligence by the City of Joburg. “There should be investigations into these open manholes. “One child is one too many, and we should ensure it never happens ever again,” said Mashaba. He said if the city was failing to find the boy because of resources, they must collaborate with the private sector to find him. Joburg Mayor Mpho Phalatse also visited the family, and said investigations will be started into the issue of open manholes. THE search for the missing six-year-old, Khayalethu Magadla, continues! Khayalethu went missing after he fell into a manhole in Dlamini, Soweto on Sunday, 12 June. Soweto residents have been looking for him with the help of the City of Johannesburg Emergency Management Services team, which resumed the search on Thursday, 16 June. However, they were unable to make a breakthrough in the operation. ActionSA leader, Herman Mashaba, visited the Magadla family after he heard about the tragic incident. He gave them words of encouragement and reassured them that ActionSA would do everything in their power to make sure the boy is found. He promised the family they’ll be compensated as this was negligence by the City of Johannesburg. “There should be investigations into these open manholes. One child is one too many and we should ensure it never happens ever again,” said Mashaba. He said he didn’t understand how the child is still not found as he went missing on Sunday. He emphasized that if the City of Johannesburg fails to find the boy because of resources, they must collaborate with the private sector in order to find him. “It’s time we bring God and accountability into our lives. They must put more effort in looking for this young man because right now, the community and the family are just not at ease with all this,” said Mashaba. Mashaba emphasised that even though nothing can help numb the pain of what the family is going through, ActionSA will ensure there’s compensation. Johannesburg mayor, Mpho Phalatse, also visited the family and said investigations will be started on the issue of open manholes.