SANGOMA Josephine Thabane was burnt to death in her indumba in Sgagula Village outside Acornhoek, Mpumalanga on Saturday, 4 June. The 51-year-old was burned after her relative allegedly accused her of being responsible for his daughter’s death. The child (5) was buried a week ago after she drowned in a pool. The little girl had been with her mum’s mother visiting a relative in Polokwane, Limpopo. Josephine’s daughter, Lesedi Thethe (25), told Daily Sun they were asleep when they woken up by footsteps and men’s voices, and the men struggled to open the door. She and her brother, Thabo, rushed to find out what was happening. “The men continued pushing the door as we pressed it from inside. The next thing one of them shattered the window. “We saw him point a gun at us. Realising we were in danger, Thabo pushed me back saying I must hide with my younger sister under the bed,” she said. ALSO READ: Woman’s decomposing body found in bedroom Lesedi said Thabo shouted that the men had gained entry into the house. “We heard the men order mum in Siswati to take all her belongings. We heard her ask: ‘What did I do wrong? My children!’ as they pushed her out of the house. “A moment later one returned into the house, cocked a gun and searched other rooms. He told his accomplices there was nobody and left,” she said. Lesedi said the men then ran into the neighbour’s house. “Our dad (Nelias) came running and he was bleeding. When we asked him where mum was, he just cried saying he left her behind with the gunmen, who let him go. We saw her indumba burning and we put out the fire. But it was too late, she was already dead,” she said. Thabo said one of the men chased him and fired shots at him. “I fled into the bushes near my home.” Brigadier Selvy Mohlala confirmed police received information that someone has been killed and burnt in Sgagula Village. “On arrival they found the body of a woman. She was identified as 51-year-old Josephine Makatsi Thabane. According to the deceased’s husband, four unknown suspects broke into the house where they assaulted him and they took the deceased to her hut. She was poured with petrol and set alight. “The suspects are unknown presently and the investigation continues. We condemn any situation where aggrieved parties resort to taking law into their own hands.” Mohlala said a murder case had been opened.