MOURNERS have pleaded with the spirit of Kutlwano Kasibe to fight for justice. At the 16-year-old’s funeral on Saturday, 25 June, speakers expressed their strong feelings of hate and anger towards the people involved in his murder. Friends and family had gathered to pay their last respects at the service held in Molapo, Soweto. The mentally challenged teen was assaulted by residents of Mapetla a week ago, after being accused of stealing a tap when a resident blew a whistle to alert the community. A relative shared letters written by Kutlwano’s mum, Dorah Kasibe, and dad, Mpho Matjekane. “My son, I’m sorry about what happened. If I knew I would have protected you. I love you. May your spirit haunt them. Fight for yourself my son,” read Dorah’s letter. Mpho wrote: “My son, I don’t have words to express my pain, but you know how deeply hurt I am. You were the only one who called me father. I’ll always love you.” Ward 33 chairwoman Mampho Molefe said: “I hate the people who did this. If some of them are present, please know that you can never be forgiven.” She added that the woman who blew the whistle was also a member of the Community Police Forum. “She is also a mother and murderer. We are here today because of her. I hope she is now happy with the final results. All those who took part in the beating of Kutlwano are all Satan, dogs and murderers. There was no evidence that he stole a tap. He was crying for help that he didn’t do anything, but they carried on to kill him. Shame on women of Mapetla. Kutlwano, please revenge for yourself,” she said. Another resident said: “I was there when Kutlwano was being beaten. He was brutally assaulted, even doused with sanitisers. As a mother, my womb went numb. I raised my hands pleading with the community that it was enough. They didn’t stop.” Kutlwano’s grandmother Meisie Matjekane said she was deeply heartbroken. “We have no power to fight for your justice. But we pray that Kutlwano’s spirit fights for himself in bringing justice. You were taken from us in a very gruesome way. We pray that God heals your wounds,” she said. Kutlwano was described as a jolly person who enjoyed smiling and playing drums. Four suspects have since been arrested in connection with his murder, and the case was postponed to 7 July for bail application.