THE youth is tired of protesting. This emerged during a wreath laying ceremony at the Hector Pieterson Memorial in Soweto on Thursday, 16 June. Gauteng Premier David Makhura, Joburg Mayor Mpho Phalatse, and politician Mmusi Maimane, were some of the officials who attended the ceremony. Other officials in attendance included officials from youth movements and organisations. The commemoration was also accompanied by music from the Sedibeng Sweet Voices Choir. Phalatse said it was important for this day to be remembered and to share the history with the next generation to continue to improve the quality of education.  She said: “I want to say this to young people, the education that was fought for, was fought for because you cannot rewrite history without an education. “We must make it count because they shed their blood so we could have a better life. Let’s allow young people to lead because young people are educated, smart and they have the drive. Whatever we are doing, we are doing it for young people.” Makhura said we can’t talk about a better future without the youth playing that role.  “We can’t build a better world without the role of young people,” he said. Meanwhile, City of Joburg Chair of Chairs, Colleen Makhubele, said her office engaged with young people as part of their oversight earlier this week.  She said young people expressed great dissatisfaction with government and expressed how they are tired of protesting over everything.  Makhubele said: “The youth are tired of protesting. How many times are they going to protest and for how many things, which belong to them and should be provided? They said they have to protest for school fees, they also have to protest for illegal foreigners that are also taking some of their opportunities. “There is also a syndrome that is happening among the youth, they are in waiting. They are not in education and training. They are waiting for something to happen.” In 2020, the National Youth Policy was introduced. Makhubele said her office will engage with the mayor and the premier’s office on the progress made relating to the policy including the fourth industrial revolution and technology based economy. She added: “The economy of this country is not working for our people.”