THE municipality is struggling to survive but it has ghost workers who get paid salaries every month! The struggling Maluti-a-Phofung Municipality in the Free State has activated investigations after allegations of having about 50 ghost workers. The monthly total expenditure for employees salaries, including ghost workers, has remained constant at R59 million, in spite of retrenchments and deaths. And this made officials suspicious. Sources told the SunTeam that a well-known vocal community leader was one of the ghost workers. Chicco Mkhwanazi, chairman for the municipal public accounts committee, refused to disclose names of ghost workers until the investigation was complete. “We will compile a formal report that will be accessible to the media and public. Involved individuals will face the might of the law,” said Mkhwanazi. “Maluti-a-Phofung has been a cash cow to corrupt syndicates for too long. Everybody who benefited wrongfully must have sleepless nights.” Mayor Gilbert Mokotso said they could not confirm anything. “But, where there’s smoke there’s fire. Involving outside specialists is being considered.” He said investigations would confirm who the individuals were, and for how long this had been happening. The municipality was currently losing R3 to R5 million every month through ghost workers. African National Congress (ANC) Chief Whip Mandlenkosi Dlamini acknowledged about 34 ghost workers during the ANC administration. “But under the new administration, the number has increased to almost 200 buddies, girlfriends and side chicks. We call for independent investigation.” The SunTeam has learnt that in the previous term, the chief financial officer reported that through checking banking details, she had reason to believe there were ghost workers in the municipality. Democratic Alliance councillor Alison Oates said they had written to municipal manager Tseko Mothamaha, asking how the allegations were taken further. “Mothamaha said 70 members of the staff of 1 600 were lost due to Covid-19, however numbers have not shown any drop,” she said. Maluti-a-Phofung’s debt to Eskom has grown from R2 billion in 2018 to about R6,6 billion in 2022.