PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa’s stood his ground on suspending Public Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane and shut the door on her demands for reinstatement. In reply to Mkhwebane's hard-hitting letter threatening court action if the decision to suspend her was not reversed by Tuesday, 14 June at 5pm, in a letter Ramaphosa said he’d not reinstate her and was prepared to defend his decision in court. He disagreed with all the allegations Mkhwebane had raised in her letter and said he was empowered by the Constitution to suspend her and had acted within the law. Mkhwebane had accused Ramaphosa of unlawfully and unconstitutionally suspending her, arguing the parliamentary process to probe her fitness to hold office hadn’t started, which should have prompted the suspension. She also said the president's rush to suspend her was triggered by her investigations into his alleged cover-up of a robbery at his Phala Phala Farm in Limpopo, in which she has sent him pointed questions. Ramaphosa disagreed with all the points she had raised and said he saw no purpose in engaging with her any more on the matter. "Many of the allegations in your letter clearly do not withstand scrutiny, particularly when considered against the judgment of the high court handed down on 10 June. I expressly reserve the right to address these issues at a later stage and in an appropriate forum. "You had sought to interdict me from exercising my constitutional rights to suspend you on two occasions. You have failed in both instances. I maintain that in taking my decision I acted lawfully and did not infringe on your right," Ramaphosa wrote in a letter that surfaced the night of Tuesday, June 14, dated the same day. He noted Mkhwebane's intention to take his decision to court to protect her constitutional rights and said he’d oppose any application she would file. Ramaphosa also pointed out he’d argue in opposing any application that, in light of two urgent applications she had brought against him, there were no grounds for a third. "I have taken a decision to suspend you, which I conveyed to you on 9 June. I did so pursuant to the constitutional power given to me in terms of section 194 (3) of the Constitution and after having considered all relevant information. That decision stands and remains valid and binding," he said.