By  lethabo khambule, ORIS MNISI and  AARON DUBETHE youth is tired of protesting. This emerged during the wreath-laying ceremony at the Hector Pieterson Memorial in Soweto yesterday, 16 June. Gauteng Premier David Makhura, Joburg Mayor Mpho Phalatse, Óne SA Movement leader Mmusi Maimane and youth movement officials attended the ceremony. Phalatse said: The commemoration was accompanied by music from the Sedibeng Sweet Voices Choir. “The youth shed their blood so we could have a better life. “Let’s allow young people to lead because they are educated and smart.” Phalatse said the education that was fought for, was fought for because you cannot write history without an education. Makhura agreed: “We can’t build a better world without the youth playing a part.” City of Joburg Chair of Chairs Colleen Makhubele said her office spoke to young people earlier this week, and they said they were tired of protesting over everything. over everything. “How many times are they going to protest and for how many things which belong to them and should be provided? They said they have to protest for school fees, they also have to protest about illegal foreigners who are taking some of their opportunities.” She said the youth is waiting. “They are not in education and training. They are waiting for something to happen.” Makhubele said her office would speak to the mayor and the premier’s office on the progress made relating to the National Youth Policy introduced in 2020. In Mpumalanga, Sam Nzima Foundation board member Dr Reuel Khoza was speaking at the Sam Nzima Memorial Lecture held at the Tshwane University of Technology campus in Mbombela. “Nzima is one of our heroes in Mpumalanga. His photograph of the dying Hector Pieterson captured the diabolic apartheid system in a moment that was pivotal,” said Khoza. “We can look back and say they are heroes in our lives.” Bra Sam’s son, Thulani Nzima, said his father’s life was : “We are here to present the Sam Mzima memorial lecture. We brought it to TUT, because we are in touch with the youth and in touch with the students. TUT was the first to recognise Sam Nzima with a posthumus doctorate in photojournalism.”He said Bra Sam’s forever bound to June 16. “We want to remind the nation and the world that the democracy that we are enjoying came at a huge price.” Riot Hlatshwayo, Rio-Jab Media Executive Director who is the only journalist who received the Sam Nzima’s Journalism Recognition Award said Nzima was his inspiration. Other speakers were TUT campus rector, Dr Kenneth Netshiombo, also gave a speech. , Shirley Mlombo, Dr Richard Ngomane and Luxolo Rubushe Meanwhile in Tshwane, some of the youngest youth took part in the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation Youth Day Parade for Justice and Change. The march started at Loftus Versfeld Stadium and ended at the Union Buildings. Deputy convener of the foundation, Zaki Mamdoo, said: “In order to have a future, the youth want government to be mindful of the critical issues affecting them today.”