DA GAUTENG is concerned about the state of holding cells at Lyttelton Police Station in Tshwane. The party alleged that suspects were kept at the back of a truck for several hours at the police station on Monday, 27 June. According to DA Gauteng Shadow MEC for Community Safety, Crezane Bosch, more than 50 suspects were kept in the police truck. “This is unacceptable. It violates the rights of the suspects as they were kept in a truck without food, water, sufficient ventilation and access to ablution facilities. “These suspects were supposed to have appeared in court on Monday morning, but were turned away due to an alleged outage at the court due to a sub-station that was flooded by heavy rains. The police officers on duty were struggling to find available cells at nearby police stations to hold the suspects until their next scheduled court appearances,” she said. Bosch said the police station has been without holding cells for the past seven years and has been using Sunnyside Police Station cells, which is almost 20km away. “This is costing the station more money in terms of fuel costs and hampers police service delivery,” she said. She said the DA conducted an oversight inspection at the cop shop. in March and again recently to see what the current situation was with regards to the cells.“We also wrote to the MEC of Community Safety, Faith Mazibuko, to ascertain when the new holding cells will be built at Lyttelton Police Station. “In her reply, Mazibuko states that at this stage they cannot confirm when the holding cells will be built. The matter is prioritised by the SAPS and has been reported to the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure,” said Bosch. Daily Sun contacted Mazibuko’s spokeswoman, Pinkie Numa, who only said they were aware of the situation.did not want to say much about the situation only that they were aware of it. “Yes, MEC Faith Mazibuko is aware,” she said. Gauteng Police spokeswomanLieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said on Saturday they arrested 23 suspects who were placed at Sunnyside, Garsfontein and Brooklyn police stations as Lyttelton Police Station doesn’t have holding cells. “On Monday, police took all the suspects to the Pretoria Magistrates Court in a truck and three police vans,” he said.