DEVASTATED survivors of the tragic tavern incident are receiving much-needed trauma counselling. The services are offered by social workers from the Eastern Cape Department of Social Development to calm survivors after 21 of their peers died tragically at Enyobeni Tavern in Scenery Park in East London, Eastern Cape, on Sunday, 26 June. The bodies of the victims, mostly teenagers, were found strewn across floors, chairs, and tables of the establishment with no visible injuries. It is alleged that there was a gas leak resulting in mass deaths. The tavern has been closed pending an investigation. Afrika Siziba, district manager from social development, said social workers are also visiting bereaved families. Parent, Namhla Makhanda, forced her way past a man at the door of Enyobeni Tavern in the early hours of Sunday to save her daughter. Makhanda said: “When we opened the door, I saw dead teenagers lying on the ground. I tried to convince myself they were just sleeping so I could find the courage to look for my child. “I shouted her name and found her in a corner unable to wake up. I took my child and rushed her to hospital.” The Buffalo City Metro Municipality, together with the provincial government and the religious community, held a prayer service for the bereaved families. During the prayer service held on Monday, 27 June, Eastern Cape Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane said he has appointed an inter-ministerial committee to co-ordinate support for the families. The prayer service was organised by Buffalo City Municipality together with the provincial government and the religious community. The committee will be convened by MEC Weziwe Tikana-Gxotiwe, supported by MECs Mlungisi Mvoko, Nonkqubela Pieters and Fezeka Nkomonye. The provincial government has dispatched a team of psychologists and social workers to render psycho-social support to the surviving victims and bereaved families. The Scenery Park community, the province and the country at large are still in shock after the incident. “We appreciate the outpouring love, prayers and messages of support from the general public to the grieving families and the Scenery Park community. “We believe this will help all affected to deal with the pain and suffering that comes with this tragedy,” said Premier Mabuyane. Meanwhile, the Provincial Liquor Board has moved to serve the owner of the tavern with a notice to temporarily close down the facility.The Eastern Cape Liquor Board Act stipulates that in the event a liquor outlet is posing a danger to society that outlet should be closed down. No time frames have been given for the period of closure and the duration will be determined by the outcome of the investigation. Premier Mabuyane confirmed calls by the SAPS for community members to give the investigators space and time to conduct their investigations into the circumstances that led to the incident.