“I PUT it to you that... an eyewitness will testify that Senzo Robert Meyiwa was allegedly shot by Nonhlanhla Kelly Khumalo by mistake.” This was said by Advocate Malesela Teffo during his cross-examination of the first state witness, Sergeant Thabo Mosia, in the North Gauteng High Court in Tshwane today, 1 June. Teffo told the court the same witness will further testify that the firearm used to shoot Meyiwa came with Longwe Twala and that firearm was a revolver. Teffo was making his last statement on his cross-examination. Before closing off, he asked for Mosia’s comment on the claims that the same eyewitness will further testify that a meeting was held to conceal or hatch the plan of avoiding saying how Senzo was killed in that house. “The same eyewitness will say all these efforts of removing the body from the scene to the hospital is all about the furtherance of the concealment of the murder of Meyiwa, by dumping him at Botshelong Hospital,” he said. Mosia responded by saying he could not comment on an alleged meeting that took place between senior Gauteng officers, including former Safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, at the crime scene. Teffo concluded his cross-examination. Advocate Zandile Mshololo, who is representing the accused number five, began hers by focusing on the number of statements Mosia has made about the case, the reason for his delay to arrive at the crime scene, and the responses he has given to the court in this regard. Mosia told the court that upon his arrival at the crime scene, he asked everyone to leave the house as he took control of the crime scene. He said only he and the late Brigadier Philani Ndlovu remained in the house. Ndlovu was the one who showed him how the crime had transpired. When asked how does he know that Ndlovu showed him the right spots, Mosia said he could not comment on that. Mosia also told the court that when he left the house on the morning of 27 October 2014 following the incident, he handed the crime scene back to Brigadier Ndlovu. Mshololo asked: “Is it the same Brigadier Ndlovu who had failed to provide you with the address that you handed the scene of the crime back to?”