THE presidency has refuted speculation that President Cyril Ramaphosa has interfered with the judiciary by meeting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo to discuss the delay of the handing over of the final State Capture inquiry report. The report was supposed to have been handed over to Ramaphosa by 15 June as per the granting of an extension by a court of law but this has not happened. Neither the presidency nor the commission have offered any explanation as to whether another extension was granted or not. The two institutions in their separate press statements have shied away from clarifying this. However, their meeting on Monday, which Ramaphosa’s spokesman Vincent Magwenya said was telephonic, raised the alarm with opposition parties describing it as concerning and bordering on interference as the president had been implicated by some witnesses during the hearing. But Magwenya on Tuesday, 21 June, dismissed the speculations and outlined the sequence of events in relation to the handing over of the final report in an attempt to clarify the matter. Magwenya said after Zondo missed the 15 June deadline to hand over the report to the president, he communicated the delay on 16 June to Ramaphosa and undertook to finalise the report as soon as possible. “The commission further stated that the electronic report will be submitted to the president on the evening of the 19 June. This unfortunately did not happen. “On the morning of 20 June, President Ramaphosa and Zondo had a brief telephone call in which the chief justice offered reassurance on the delivery of the report and discussed the co-ordination for the handover ceremony,” Mgwena explained. He confirmed that by midnight on Monday, the presidency had not received any version of the report from the commission. It is still not clear when Ramaphosa would be handed the electronic version which in past preceded the hard copy. The commission in a press statement explaining the delay on Monday, 20 June, said it had encountered challenges in processing the report due to its volume. Magwenya said the commission team had informed the presidency that it would finalise the report after the sitting of the Judicial Service Commission on Monday, 20 June but not on time to hand it over at 6pm on the same day. He emphasised that no handover of the report could take place until and unless the chief justice had finalised his work. Therefore, a tentative date was set for Wednesday, 22 June, due to the further delay and also because Ramaphosa was scheduled to attend the funeral of King Zanokuzo Sigcau at Flagstaff in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday, 21 June. “The presidency therefore rejects claims that the president has in any manner interfered with the work of the commission or the judiciary as speculated by some opposition parties. “ Communication between the chief justice and the president has been over the delays in the delivery of the report and finalising the date for the official handover of the report,” he said. Magwenya said Ramaphosa would make an announcement once he received the final report. The commission echoed The Presidency in refuting any meddling by the
president, saying the two didn't meet in person as widely reported. In a statement, the commission secretary Professor Itumeleng Mosala said
the postponement of the handover was at the request of the chairman Chief
Justice Raymond Zondo because he wanted to go through the report one final time
to check for errors. "The president never interfered in any way with the work of the
chairperson or the commission. The chairperson regrets any inconvenience caused
by the delay and the postponement. "The chairperson just wanted one final opportunity for quality
assurance as he was at the JSC (Judicial Services Commission) interviews
yesterday (Monday, June 20 2022) and could not do that until sometime in the
afternoon," said Mosala. 