AFRO-soul singer Naima Kay and a community radio DJ and prince, Morris Mpungose, have been setting tongues wagging on social media. They have been showering one another love, sparking rumours that they are romantically involved. But the two said they’re not dating but are only friends. Morris is a prince as he is from a royal family, based in Nkandla, northern KZN. He is also a gqom and Afro-soul artist who is signed under West Ink Records. Speaking to Daily Sun, he said that as a prince, it is his tradition that he gets married to a virgin. “I’m not saying that Naima Kay is not a virgin anymore. But I can never be romantically involved with her. She is my best friend. She knows that I love her as a friend,” said Morris. ALSO READ : Emtee focusing on business!   Daily Sun has seen a Facebook post where Morris expresses his undying love for Naima Kay. He posted: “Sthandwa Sami ngedwa. Ngiyakuthanda yazi kakhulu Mashobane. (My only love. I love you so much Mashobane).” Mashobane is Naima Kay’s clan name. With heart emojis, Naima Kay responded: “I love you more.” “Yazi babe ngathi ngiyaqala ukuthandana nomuntu yazi indlela engikuthanda ngayo ndlunkulu wami. (You know babe, it feels like it’s my first time loving a person. I love you so much, my queen),” responded Morris. This Facebook post is one of many that were previously posted by Morris. Although they are flaunting “their relationship” on social media, the two have insisted they are just friends. Naima Kay, whose real name is Lungelo Khumalo, said she met Morris a few years ago since they are in the same industry. “I’m the type of person who loves keeping her romantic affairs private. I can never brag about my romantic relationship on social media, that’s not me. So, Morris and I are close friends to an extent that we call each other lovers. And I have noticed that people believe that we are dating. But we are not. We’re friends. He is my best best friend and an amazing person,” said Naima Kay. Morris said he is currently single and looking while Naima Kay insists her affairs are private.