A 13 -YEAR-OLD girl from KwaNzimakwe in KZN was beaten to death, allegedly by church members, who were trying to drive demons out of her. The horrific details of her death were revealed by the office of social development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza, who was expected to visit the girl’s family yesterday, 6 June. Five children were held hostage from 25 to 29 May and allegedly beaten up by a pastor, claiming to cast out demons. Khoza said the 13-year-old girl died as a result of the brutal assault, while four other children were freed. She said it is alleged that those involved in the assault and torture of the children attempted to conceal the death. “It is alleged church elders tempered with the crime scene, including moving the surviving children to other rooms. “They were eventually released to their respective parents,” said Khoza. Khoza said social workers were informed about the incident on Friday, 3 June, when they visited Bheki High School in KZN. “Four surviving children have since been moved to a place of safety under the supervision of a social worker,” she said. KZN cops spokesman, Brigadier Jay Naicker said on 29 May, police at Port Edward received a report of a person who had died. Upon arrival at the scene, police were shown the body of a girl who had injuries on her body. Naicker said police were told that the victim committed suicide as she was possessed by demons. An inquest docket was opened for investigation. “On Friday, police also received a report of a 16-year-old girl who was treated for injuries at a local clinic and was taken to hospital for medical attention.. “It was established that three other girls were in the house. Girls, aged between 15 and 18, were rescued from the house,” said Naicker. He said the post-mortem indicated that the first victim died due to injuries from the assault. “Charges of murder, attempted murder and assault with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm were opened. A 40-year-old man was arrested. He will appear in the Port Shepstone Magistrates Court soon.”