THE Jacob Zuma Foundation has announced the former president will be instituting a private prosecution against the lead prosecutor in his corruption case, Advocate Billy Downer. This comes after the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on Tuesday, 7 June, announced it had issued a nolle prosequi certificate in the matter. Zuma last year opened a criminal case against Downer for allegedly leaking a medical note from his military doctor to the media. This even though his own lawyers had filed the note with the court as part of an application to postpone his case due to his ill health at the time. The NPA maintains the case is baseless and cannot be sustained and in April announced its decision not to prosecute Downer. In a statement, the Jacob Zuma Foundation welcomed the issue of the nolle prosequi certificate. The foundation spokesman Mzwanele Manyi said that the former president now had three months to institute a private prosecution but that he would do so long before that date. In the statement, Manyi said Zuma’s legal team earlier said it had already started all the preparatory work, and a draft charge had already been prepared. ALSO READ |
'Selling GALEPHIRIME should be a crime' In the meantime, the foundation has again called on National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Shamila Batohi to remove Downer from the case. Meanwhile, NPA spokesman Mthunzi Mhaga said the nolle prosequi certificate is issued when the prosecuting authority has declined to prosecute in a particular case to a party that has an interest to pursue private prosecution. “This follows a request from Zuma’s lawyers, after the DPP had declined to prosecute Advocate Billy Downer due to insufficiency of evidence,” he said. He said the NPA agrees with the NDPP that the charges laid against Downer are baseless and cannot be sustained, hence their decision not to prosecute him. “Advocate Downer has the NPA’s full support and will continue to lead the prosecution team against Zuma and Thales,” he said. Mhaga said Zuma had the right to pursue a private prosecution and due process should be followed. “Advocate Downer will of course defend himself in terms of the various legal remedies available to him. The NPA will support Advocate Downer in defending himself against what we consider to be an abusive private prosecution,” he said. He said as the NPA progresses with prosecutions of corruption and other serious economic crimes, particularly against the rich and the powerful, they expect that there would be attacks against NPA staff, to evade justice. “We will not be deterred by such attacks,” he said. He said Downer remained focused on ensuring that the trial against Zuma and Thales resumes on 15 August.