IT’S been more than two weeks since Sediba Sa Thuto Primary School in Mamelodi, Tshwane, was closed down by parents as they demanded more containers and toilets for their kids. Mathapelo Sibasa (30) said the school won’t be opened until the Gauteng Department of Education delivered the containers and toilets it had promised. “It’s not right to keep our children at home. But it’s bad that they always come home dirty because they sit on the floor. It’s winter now and this is affecting them,” she said. Puseletso Ngubeni (38) said for the past 13 years, the school had been using containers and there were no building structures. READ: PUPILS PEE IN THE BUSHES! “We’ve been talking to the department about permanent structures, and they keep telling us about the budget,” she said. Education spokesman Steve Mabona said: “The department is aware of the infrastructure challenges at the school. Necessary processes are underway to ensure it’s capacitated with mobile classrooms in due course. “We urge all stakeholders to use available structures to raise issues of concern and not disrupt schooling.” IT has been over two weeks since Sediba sa Thuto Primary School in Mamelodi, Tshwane, was closed down by the community. Parents were demanding more containers and toilets for their children. Mathapelo Sibasa (30) said the school would continue being closed until the Gauteng Department of Education delivered containers and toilets it had promised. ALSO READ: SCHOOL TOILETS TOO FULL TO USE “It is not right to keep our children at home, and it’s bad that they always come home dirty because they sit on the floor. It’s now winter and this is affecting them,” she said. She said they were demanding classrooms and toilets to be delivered before allowing children to resume with schooling. Puseletso Ngubeni (38) said she was angry that children did not have enough classrooms, and overcrowding was not good for them. “Some children are failing because of the situation. We want answers from the department,” she said. Ngubeni said in the past 13 years, the school had been using containers and there were no building structures. “We have been talking to the department about permanent structures and it keeps telling us about the budget,” she said, adding that they had been patient for years. Education spokesman Steve Mabona said when the school was initially closed, the department was aware of the situation. “The department confirms that it is aware of the infrastructure challenges at the said school. Necessary processes are underway to ensure that it is capacitated with mobile classrooms in due course,” he said. “Nothing justifies the disruption of schooling, more so during a time when every day counts as we have already lost critical school days due to such disruptions. We urge all stakeholders to use available structures to raise issues of concern and not disrupt schooling. Lost contact time is not easily recovered,” he said.