THE ANC Limpopo elective conference is set to kick off today on Friday, 3 June, amid fears that it could be delayed. This as the provincial executive committee (PEC) is said to be meeting under an undisclosed agenda. At a press conference to brief the media on the state of readiness, outgoing provincial secretary Soviet Lekganyane said it was all systems go, and they were not anticipating any glitches. However, Lekganyane revealed that the province was considering a request by Waterberg Region to hold its conference so it could attend as a block. In a letter to Lekganyane, who enjoyed support from the region, the regional executive committee said it requested to be allowed to hold its one-day conference to renew its mandate. It also requested to be allowed to register for the provincial conference. “The region has received its signed audit report from the secretary general’s office, together with the national dispute resolution committee report, that confirms all disputes at their disposal have been approved and as such, don’t affect the 70% required as a threshold for the regional conference,” it said. On the eve of the conference the two factions, one led by public works MEC Dickson Masemola and Lekganyane, and another by Premier Stan Mathabatha backed by the influential Danny Msiza, held separate assemblies to consolidate their numbers. But in a dramatic turn of events, Mathabatha’s faction assembly was said to have collapsed due to unattendance of regions it was said were still registering. It was understood that the registration of delegates was almost complete by 2am. Lekganyane was not immediately available to confirm the agenda of the PEC meeting. ANC treasurer general Paul Mashatile, currently performing duties of the secretary general office due to the suspension of Ace Magashule, was expected to open the conference that would possibly be closed by President Cyril Ramaphosa, who is facing a firestorm following the opening of a criminal case by former correctional services commissioner Arthur Fraser.