MPUMALANGA Education MEC Bonakele Majuba said his department has about R1,2 billion allocated to sustain, maintain and improve schools infrastructure in the province. Majuba was speaking during the tabling of the policy and the budget for financial year 2022 /23 on Friday, 10 June. “The department has a serious backlog in the improvement and delivery of school infrastructure which may require billions and billions of Rands to address. This backlog is worsened by a myriad of developments, some of which the department is working very hard to address. The unfavourable weather resulting in heavy storms has inflicted a lot of damage and havoc by destroying some of our school infrastructure,” he said. He said the constant break-ins at schools is a serious concern in which they implore communities to help to curb it as a matter of urgency. “In the past two years, more than 200 schools have been broken into. Poor day-to-day maintenance of schools by School Governing Bodies is another hurdle that the department has to overcome. Community interference and at times unreasonable demands steal some of the projects. The department further institute creative ways to work with the corporate sector including our communities to sustain, maintain and improve school infrastructure within the province. To this end, an amount of R1,2 billion has been allocated to achieve those objectives,” he said. He said more than 900 pupils will continue with provision of meals at schools, with over R800 million allocated in the 2022/23 financial year, towards the success of the school nutrition programme. He said more than R200 million has been allocated to pioneer the teachers training on e-learning, ICT integration and on how to conduct virtual lessons for pupils, so they could improve service and curriculum delivery aligned to the futuristic changing trajectory. He said 55 000 tablets were rolled out to grade 12 pupils in the province. “The investment in e-learning aligns very well with the vision and mission of the department. Our target is to place a tablet in the hands of every pupil and a laptop in the hands of every teacher in the province and to create virtual online learning classrooms through incredible Learner Management System. The Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR)will have an impact in the near future on the skills programme relevant to what the economy needs these would have to be in the fields such as artificial intelligence, coding and robotics,” added the MEC.