THE Miss SA Top 10 contestants have been chosen and now all roads lead to the finale. They were announced on Monday night, 13 June, and they are Anarzade Omar, Ayanda Thabethe, Itumeleng Parage, Keaoleboga Nkashe, Lebogang Mahlangu, Luvé Meyer, Luyanda Zuma, Pearl Ntshehi, Tamsyn Jack and Ndavi Nokeri, who was the public vote winner. The contestants represent five provinces – Gauteng has four, KZN and Western Cape, as well as Limpopo and the North West with one finalist each. This year’s Top 10 judges were Liesl Laurie-Mthombeni, Tracey-Lee Lusty Horwitz, Koo Govender, Khosi Nkosi, Makhosazana Zwane-Siguqa, Simoné Nortmann, and Thando Thabethe. Miss SA 2022 finale will take place on 13 August at the SunBet Arena at Time Square, Tshwane. It will also be broadcast live on M-Net and Mzansi Magic. Here are the Top 10 finalists: ALSO READ : Singer Cici about to show her bad and toxic side! Anarzade Omar (23) is from Crown Gardens, Joburg, Gauteng. She has a BA in strategic communication in marketing from the University of Johannesburg and works as a social media manager at a digital marketing agency. She also runs a small online sushi business which she launched during the Covid-19 lockdown. Ayanda Thabethe (22) is from Maritzburg, KZN. She’s pursuing a degree in dietetics and human nutrition. Thabethe is delighted that both the KZN Top 10 finalists come from Maritzburg. Itumeleng Parage (22) comes from Central Western Jabavu in Soweto, Gauteng, and is a Bachelor of Law student with a Bachelor of Arts (law major) degree from Wits University. Keaoleboga Nkashe (26) is from Itsoseng, in the Ngaka Modiri Molema district in the North West and is a post-graduate student, freelance model and kindergarten teacher. Nkashe left her teaching job in China to return to South Africa when she was named in the Top 30. Lebogang Mahlangu (26) is from Soshanguve in Tshwane, Gauteng, and works for a multinational FMCG company as a procurement specialist. She has a BSc food science degree from Stellenbosch University. Luvé Meyer (25) comes from Brackenfell in Cape Town. She has a Bachelor of health science and social services degree and an honours degree in psychology from the University of South Africa and is a full-time model and small business co-owner. Luyanda Zuma (20) is from Maritzburg in KZN and is an international model, entrepreneur and a final year Bachelor of live performance student at AFDA. Zuma said: “I am thrilled to have made the Top 10. Ndavi Nokeri (23) is from Tzaneen in Limpopo. She has a BCom investment management degree from the University of Pretoria and is working for an asset management firm. Pearl Ntshehi (25) was born and raised in Mamelodi but now lives in Centurion, Tshwane. She’s a candidate attorney and has BCom law, BCom honours and LLB degrees. Tamsyn Jack (25), who is from Somerset West in the Western Cape, is an entrepreneur working with some of South Africa’s leading start-ups and small businesses. She graduated with a food science degree from the University of Stellenbosch.