THE African National Congress (ANC) Gauteng elective conference entered its final day on Sunday, 26 June, after being delayed by branch disputes and a legal bid to interdict it. Much of the deliberations on Saturday, 25 June, were spent tackling the Ekurhuleni votes that were quarantined after disputes were launched, challenging how five branches were constituted. The provincial executive committee had resolved to allow delegates from those branches to participate in the conference and vote but stated that their votes would also be quarantined. But in an unprecedented move, a special national executive committee (NEC) meeting was convened to deal with the matter with backers of President Cyril Ramaphosa said to have called for a rerun of the conference. READ: New PEC to deal with Ekurhuleni issues This proposal was defeated in the NEC meeting and in a last ditch effort, a disgruntled member from Ekurhuleni launched an application in the Gauteng South High Court in Joburg to challenge the decision of the NEC and interdict the conference. On Saturday night, Judge Motsamai Makaume ruled that the application to interdict the provincial conference be struck off the roll because it is not urgent. The applicants in the matter were ordered by the court to pay the costs. The ANC was served with court papers as one of its delegates, Derick Sithole from Ekurhuleni, wanted to stop the conference from going ahead over the Ekurhuleni ANC conference’s quarantined votes. Addressing reporters in a midnight media briefing, ANC spokesman Pule Mabe said: “We are comfortable that processes of the ANC are foolproof and sufficient enough to stand any form of scrutiny and that we were also looking forward to the court ruling in our favour. “We are not saying this because we are arrogant, we are saying this because we have been watching the trend over the past few years.” Since the start of the party’s provincial conferences early this year, its disgruntled members have approached various courts in an attempt to stop the conferences. However, this has so far been in vain as all the applications have all been dismissed. Mabe told reporters: “As you would have noted, the courts have been ruling in our favour. Others may want to be technical and say these courts are not ruling on the merits of cases but the urgency. We are comfortable. We accept the outcomes. We are going to embrace those comrades of Ekurhuleni. They are part of participants in this conference and they have been given tags.” ALSO READ: Panyaza and Maile battle it out The issue of the quarantined votes from the Ekurhuleni regional conference is a thorn that refuses to go away for the currently underway provincial conference. Pule said they had to make sure that they were thorough on how they do things so that they can avoid being interdicted, which will set them back on the money they would have spent on organising the conference. After the presentation of the organisational and financial reports, the conference moved to the adoption of credentials, which went on until Sunday morning. By the crack of dawn, the conference moved into the nomination of the top five, which would see education MEC Panyaza Lesufi squaring off with co-operative governance MEC Lebohang Maile in a battle for the chairmanship.