KZN PREMIER Sihle Zikalala almost came to blows with Ngizwe Mchunu on Saturday, 4 June! According to sources, health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu had to intervene to prevent a brutal fist fight. And the drama is far from over as the two have since opened assault cases against each other. The trouble started when Mchunu, a former Ukhozi FM presenter and vocal supporter of former president Jacob Zuma, tried to greet Zikalala in the VVIP marquee at the Ingoma ka-Zwelonke Traditional Dance Festival held at Moses Madiba Stadium in Durban, KZN. A source said Zikalala became angry after Ngizwe shouted at him at the top of his lungs. Zikalala allegedly elbowed Ngizwe’s hands out of his way, infuriating Ngizwe. ALSO READ: Sangoma burnt to death in her indumba! The outspoken Ngizwe has repeatedly attacked Zikalala, accusing him of being a sell-out for associating with President Cyril Ramaphosa. Ngizwe later opened an assault case at the Durban Central Police Station. “He assaulted me and I don’t know why because all was well between us. He was next to me and he said ‘what do you want from me’ and then hit me with his fist. I fell down,” said Ngizwe. “One of his personal assistants said the chairman must be forgiven because he was a bit drunk.” Zikalala’s spokesman Lennox Mabaso said the premier opened assault and crimen injuria cases at the same police station. “There has been a series of recent episodes during which Mr Mchunu hurled verbal abuse at the premier without justification or provocation,” he said. “In continuation of this widely publicised mode of attack on the premier, Mr Mchunu escalated this when he came over to the exclusive area where the premier was seated and started hurling insults at the premier.” Mabaso said people nearby had to intervene. Ngizwe was arrested last year for allegedly being an instigator of the KZN unrest. He was released on bail. SAPS head office spokesperson Colonel Athlenda Mathe told DailySun that the SAPS is investigating two cases have been registered at Durban Central Police Station. “The SAPS confirms that the cases of common assault were registered on Saturday, 4 June, while the case of crimen injuria was registered yesterday, 5 June,” she said. 