OUTGOING ANC Gauteng chairperson and premier David Makhura has appealed for the party to rope in young men and women into leadership to ensure better performance by the party at the polls in 2024. Delivering his political report at the 14th provincial conference that got underway at Lakes Hotel in Benoni outside Joburg, Makhura urged the party not to close the door on young men and women. However, he warned that when these young leaders are recruited into positions in the structures of the party, they should not be corrupted but rather taught to be radical. "We must train them and let them make mistakes. They must bring their enemies here. Politically and ideological they must be free. We must let them go and experience and come up with radical ideas. I want to say to the youngsters that if you have not been radical you missed a step in your life. READ: Fractious ANC Ekurhuleni conference reveals extent of divisions in the region - Makhura "We must continue to say where are the younger people in the structure because the ANC is different when it’s led by the youth people," charged Makhura. His call comes amid repeated calls, particularly by the struggling youth league structures who have been complaining that even their structure was being dominated by elders who were there to serve their interests. It also comes after several attempts to revive the youth league which was disbanded in 2019 and a task team established to take the league to a conference to elect new leadership also disbanded. This was after complaints that the task team was led by elders but the current task team led by convener Nonceba Mhlauli has been struggling to hold a conference and missed set deadlines. Makhura in his political report pointed out that the lack of participation of the youth in party structures contributed to the party losing significant support in the local government elections which saw the party failing to reach 50%. Makhura is not contesting to retain his position and his call resonates with the two contenders vying for chairmanship education MEC Panyaza Lesufi and corporate governance MEC Lebogang Maile who are both relatively young. After serving two terms Makhura is now poised to go national. ALSO READ: SECURITY beefed up at ANC GP conference He thanked his colleagues for the support while he served as their chairman, saying he needed to vacate the position while he could still dance but warned that the province and the party should eradicate factions within the party. The elective conference finally got underway late Friday, June 24 afternoon after a marathon national executive meeting rejected a proposal that the Ekurhuleni regional conference should have a rerun was defeated. The NEC in an unprecedented move on the eve of the conference called a specialist to discuss the issue of Ekurhuleni quarantined 19 votes that have now derailed the confirmation of the winner of the chairmanship of the region. After the votes were quarantined, a panel was established to tackle the matter led by senior party member Jeff Radebe who in turn is said to have gone beyond the scope and investigated other branches and revealed the number of disputes extended to 27 branches. 