RELEGATED Jomo Cosmos could make a dramatic return to the SA professional ranks. Cosmos, a club owned by one of the country's most respected football figures Jomo Sono, were relegated from the SA football professional ranks to the amateur ABC Motsepe League in April after their 1-1 draw against TS Sporting. However, SunSport has reliably learnt that Ezenkosi have what looks like a solid case with the Premier Soccer League (PSL) which could see them being reinstated in the GladAfrica championship. That would happen if fellow Championship side Hungry Lions are found guilty and are docked points by the League disciplinary committee. Lions have been ordered to appear before the PSL DC on Monday, 27 June as they are accused of fielding a defaulter Tshepo Mohlala in 10 of their Championship matches. Mohlala played for Cosmos amateur side around 2015-16 and he never got his clearance from Ezenkosi, and he went on to contravening rule 32.2 and 32.3 of the NSL Handbook by playing for Lions. Rule 32.2. states: “An amateur Player will be free to sign for another Member Club after having obtained a clearance certificate from the Member Club the Player was last registered with. It will constitute misconduct for a Member Club to unreasonably withhold a clearancecertificate” 32.3. “A provision in a clearance certificate purporting to specify the Member Club or club to which the registration of an amateur Player may be transferred will be of no force though the validity of the clearance certificate will not be affected.They have also been charged with bringing the game, a sponsor, Player, Member Club, Member Club Official, the League, SAFA, CAF or FIFA into disrepute as per rule 55.3.13 of the Handbook” “The first respondent (Hungry Lions) fielded the second respondent (Tshepo Mohlala) in the fixtures referred to in 3 above when the said player was never cleared by the Jomo Cosmos FC, thus resulting in the said players registration with the first respondent being null and void,” wrote the PSL in the charge sheet which SunSport has seen. In those 10 matches Lions collected 15 points and if found guilty they could be docked points and subsequently relegated to Motsepe League as they will then sit on 21 points and move to bottom of the log. Cosmos finished the season in position 15 with 28 points same as TS Sporting who are currently in 16th place. They are only separated by goal difference.