MUSICIAN, Mandla “Mampintsha” Maphumulo, is caught between a rock and a hard place. This is because the two women in his life, his wife, Bongekile “Babes Wodumo” Simelane, and his mother, Zama Gumede, are fighting for his attention. On Tuesday, 21 June Mampintsha spoke for the first time on UKhozi FM’s Vuka Breakfast Show about how the fight between his wife and his mum gives him a headache. “I love both of them, but they don’t get along. This is giving me stress and I don’t know how to deal with it,” revealed Mampintsha. On Saturday, 18 June Babes shared a WhatsApp status which read: “Ingakho umamezala ngingamthandi, ilamasimba awenzayo. Nxa lo mama une drama (this is why I don’t like my mother-in-law. She’s doing s**t and is full of drama). ALSO READ : Zodwa Wabantu: Idlozi is bigger than fame! Mampintsha told the station he is hurt by the insults levelled at his mother. It wasn’t the first time she insulted my mother and every time she does that, it hurts me. I love Babes, but I can never encourage her to insult my mother. “I’ve warned Babes many times to stop insulting my mum.I’ve been warning her that my mother is off limits. Unfortunately, I cannot control her actions and I’m not going to defend her on this one. She must take accountability for her actions.” Zama said Babes was the source of trouble in her home. “Everything was fine until she was formally introduced to us.We used to live in peace and harmony. Mampintsha used to support us, but now neglects us,” Zama said. “He knows I only survive on pension but he no longer buys me food. My main complaint right now is the payment for his reality show. Mampintsha will always be my son. I don’t hate him. I want my money from seasons one and two. Then, he can leave us alone.” But Mampintsha said his mum must support him no matter what. “This is my show, my hustle. The reason she’s not getting money is because I don’t get a monthly income. We get a lump sum. I also believe she was paid a certain amount,” he said. Daily Sun tried to reach out to Babes, but her phone rang unanswered. and she did not respond to messages.