THE Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Free State has regarded the ANC step-aside rule as nothing but a smokescreen for the party to appear as if it is cleaning up its house while that is not the case. DA leader and member of the National Council of Provinces (NCOP) George Michalakis has made a reference to two ANC mayors and former mayor in Lejweleputswa District, who were criminally charged but not forced to vacate their offices. Both Masilonyana Local Municipality Mayor Dimakatso Modise and Tswelopele Local Municipality Mayor Kenalemang Phukuntsi are currently being charged criminally. Modise is being charged for inciting violence and Phukuntsi for theft and crimen injura. The pair have allegedly received letters from the ANC, asking them to step aside weeks ago, but have not done so. During a select committee of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs meeting in Parliament on Tuesday, 14 June, the Hawks indicated that Nkosinjani Speelman, former mayor of Matjhabeng and now councillor in Lejweleputswa municipality, was being investigated for fraud and corruption. "If the ANC is indeed pro poor and serious about ridding itself of corruption, that has become so deeply rooted in its character, it would enforce this step-aside rule and not be weak and indecisive. The DA cares about service delivery and clean government. The community deserves nothing less and therefore, we will continue to encourage investigations ongoing against these ANC cadres," Said Michalakis. Independent political analyst Reaobaka Kalaote said a few months ago, the party's provincial conferences had nominees facing serious charges being put up as candidates to lead. "This simply affirms that the step-aside resolution was never intended to clear the party of its bad image. Instead, what the resolution did was to further expose the extent of the rot within the party. Nominations of candidates, such as former eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede, came from branches. These lowest structures should be the voice of reason; the root of the party's renewal mandate, however the manipulation effected with strong gate-keeping has ensured that the ideal leadership remains but an utopia. Unfortunately, the leadership and members alike are making a mockery of the rule," said Kalaote. The Auditor General's findings found that the state of Free State municipalities helped to paint a picture of the dire state of the capacity, capability and future prospects of the effective functioning of these municipalities under the current compromised leadership.