President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF), Patrice Motsepe, has heaped praise on former Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane, describing him as “my favourite coach.” The two enjoyed a successful eight year working relationship when Mosimane coached the Motsepe owned Sundowns team, winning just about every trophy under the sun. Their relationship, however, was severely tested and potentially damaged when Mosimane abruptly left Downs to join Al Ahly in 2020. His departure was not taken well by Downs as they later filed court papers ordering Mosimane to pay back almost R8 million linked to his R1.5 million salary he received after signing a new deal with the club early in 2020. Mosimane went on to replicate the success he had at Downs with the Red Devils, winning two Champions League titles among other major achievements. Motsepe insists, though, that he remains a big admirer of Mosimane and even suggested that he wouldn’t mind paying for the former Downs coach to return to Bafana Bafana. Motsepe, who was addressing the South African National Editors' Forum (SANEF) on Saturday in Parktown, Joburg, lavished Mosimane with praise. “I love Pitso, I will always love Pitso. He’s my favourite coach and he’s got a special place in my heart,” said Motsepe. “I always wish him well. I actually hope he can coach Bafana Bafana again in the near future. I would even get the Motsepe foundation to subsidise his salary. I think he’s a quality coach and quality doesn’t come cheap.” Motsepe also took the opportunity to further clarify CAF’s decision to award Morocco the rights to host the Champions League final only after the semi-final first leg was played, a decision that frustrated Mosimane. The Moroccan Football Federation were the last to bid to host the final after Senegal withdrew, as CAF awarded the rights to the north African nation. The Mohamed V Stadium in Casablanca played host to the final, which is the home venue for Wydad Casablanca, and they beat Mosimane’s Al Ahly 2-0 to take the Champions League title. And in the aftermath of that final, Mosimane decided to part ways with Al Ahly, ending his stay with the club as head coach after 20 months. “I inherited a situation which was totally unacceptable. CAF took a decision in 2018 to have a one-legged final and I couldn’t change that,” added Motsepe. “You had countries that had to compete to host the final. At the end of the day only two countries complied with the conditions and that was Morocco and Senegal. “And the concern from Ahly was legitimate and fair. But the problem I had was that I couldn’t be a president that disregards rules and regulations. But I can guarantee that something like that will never happen again.”