A CASE of malicious damage to property and attempted murder against Mark Scott-Crossley has been postponed to 3 and 4 October for the exchange of the head of arguments. Scott-Crossley appeared before the Lenyenye Regional Court, outside Tzaneen in Limpopo, from Monday, 13 June, until today, 14 June. The state called two journos, freelancer Elbi Dippenaar and SunMan, Oris Mnisi, to take the witness stand and testify before Magistrate Carol Honwana. This comes after Scott-Crossley’s defense advocate Charl Van Tonder argued that both journos should tell the court how they got their story. He said: “Are you the author of these Daily Sun articles in these copies before the court and also posted on your website with the print date of 22 December 2016, sir? “Of course, both are good articles. But if I may ask you as to who informed you and why on this paragraph you only mentioned a bakkie instead of specifying the car make or discpriction? “And how did you receive the information about the victim and when you did you conduct the interview with him? “How was his condition? Did he mention my client before this court, the one who hit him with the car? Mnisi said: “It was important as journalists that we don’t step out of the roles as impartial observers. “Our duty is to protect our reliable sources who called us. “I followed all the processes with the Mpumalanga Department of Health after receiving calls from our sources. “We interviewed the victim on the day in question after finding him at the male surgical ward of Tintswalo Hospital in Acornhoek, near Bushbuckridge, in Mpumalanga through the department and his permission. “The victim was lying in a hospital bed and was looking as if he was having post-traumatic stress, as he was crying in pain. “He had multiple stitches and severe injuries on his head with a plaster on his leg. He could talk and reply to all the questions and he mentioned that the accused, Mark Scott-Crossley, was the one who hit him with a silver Land Rover bakkie after he dragged him with clothes and smashed his cellphone. “Mabunda said he had just ran out to answer a call after buying R12 airtime but Scott-Crossley confronted him when he was exiting the restaurant. “He said he didn’t even know that his attacker was Scott-Crossley and learned that after a group of men whom he was drinking with near the car shouted his name and told him to stop attacking him.” Advocate Eric Babapa asked Mnisi if it was possible for the court to view the article that he had filed through his email on the day in question. But Mnisi said: “The permission I got from my employer is to testify and the testimony won’t be about the content of the article but it pertains only to the time line of the interview I conducted with the victim.” Mabunda (37), who is a general worker at Moholoholo Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre was allegedly attacked by Scott-Crossley outside restaurant at Kampersrus dorpie, in the west of Hoedspruit, Limpopo, on Wednesday, 14 December 2016, at around 7pm. He said he had just finished buying the R12 airtime voucher when his phone started ringing inside the shop. He then ran out to answer the phone outside the shop but Scott-Crossley provoked him by ripping the phone off his hand and smashed it on the ground, damaging its screen. When he asked him why he did that, he said Scott-Crossley angrily answered, “ek sal jou bliksem” and dragged him by the clothes. The gang he was with, shouted at him and said: “Mark Scott-Crossley what are you doing? Stop it now!” Mabunda said he walked down the R36 road, about 1km away from the shop. He said Scott-Crossley then followed him with his silver Land Rover and quickly made a U-turn. He said Scott-Crossley then drove up the car straight to him. He said he tried to avoid the car, but it was too late. Mabunda was knocked by the car. He screamed for help and tried to lift up his head but Scott-Crossley reversed the car hitting him again. He became unconscious. He said if it were not for a local farm worker who discovered him bleeding on the roadside, he could have died. “I couldn’t even stand as both my legs and chest were painful and partly peeled off,” Mabunda said. He said the farm worker then phoned his colleagues, who called the police and the ambulance. The doctors told him his leg was dislocated. The state marked the Daily Sun and Beeld’s articles as exhibits.