PUBLIC Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane released a number of investigation reports during a media briefing in Tshwane on Tuesday, 31 May. Mkhwebane released five reports, in two of which they have made adverse findings. She said two others are advisory reports while the last one is a report marking the closure of an investigation. “We issue advisory reports in cases where there are no adverse findings but observations that point to the need for respondents to do things differently,” she said. She said closing reports, on the other hand, are issued in cases where the allegations that gave rise to the investigation are unsubstantiated or where their preliminary investigations suggest that they do not enjoy jurisdiction to deal with a matter. She said all five investigations dealt with legal aid at the expense of the state, pension in relation to the public sector, public education, accountability in respect of the use of funds flowing from the public purse to political parties represented in Parliament for party-political activities and maladministration and corruption involving certain persons within the Constitutional Court. “We investigated allegations of failure by the East London Justice Centre of Legal Aid South Africa (Lasa) to defend Tombekhaya Neti in divorce proceedings against her ex-husband, Mr Makhaya Neti, in the East London Regional Court on 7 November, 2012. “The investigation followed a complaint that the Public Service Commission referred to us on behalf of Mrs Neti in January 2019,” she said. She said their investigation established that, indeed, Lasa failed to defend Mrs Neti in the divorce proceedings before the Regional Court in East London, on 7 November 2012. Mkhwebane said to remedy this improper conduct and maladministration, the CEO of Lasa must, within 30 working days from the date of this report, present a copy of thereof to the Legal Aid Board as the accounting authority of the Lasa for it to take cognisance of the findings made therein. Another separate case that Mkhwebane released is an investigation into the allegations of misuse of public funds allocated to the ANC by Parliament as political party allowance by MP Pemmy Majodina during the award of the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) tender to her son’s private company. She said the investigation followed a complaint lodged in April 2021 by ANC MP Mervyn Dirks. “Mr Dirks alleged that the award of the PPE tender for the supply of thermometers worth R52 500 by the ANC constituency office to the company owned by Ms Majodina’s son, Thandolwethu Mkhonto weSizwe Majodina is, at face value, in contravention of Section 217 of the Constitution. “Regarding the issues, evidence uncovered during the investigation showed that indeed the PPE tender for the supply of thermometers worth R52 500 in which public funds under the Office of the ANC Parliamentary Caucus were used, was awarded to a company owned by Ms Majodina’s son,” she said.