MPUMALANGA’S youngest chief and Moletele Tribe’s Kgoshi Shaun Chiloane (25) has promised more developments and a better life for his people. He was speaking during his inaugural speech as the 14th ruler at his Tribal Council offices in Buffelshoek Village outside Acornhoek on Saturday, 25 June. His father, Kgoshi Abuti Chiloane, died in an accident after his car ran over a donkey near Skorokoro outside Hoedspruit in Limpopo in 2018. The event was attended by his people, amakhosi, Bushbuckridge Mayor Sylvia Nxumalo as well as mayors from as far as Phalaborwa, Limpopo, councillors and others. “I’m the new kgoshi of you, the Moletele people. I am taking this throne my dad Abuti had left in 2018. I promise that I won’t let you down. But please always guide me whenever you see me getting lost. As a young leader, I am aware of the challenges you’re facing, especially the young people. READ: Amakhosi gatvol with dept “Many of you are unemployed and don’t even have job opportunities, which is the main cause many of you find yourselves on the wrong path of life,” he said. “I will work together with the government and relevant stakeholders to make the changes. There’s already 15 youths who will do a trade test for mechanical, electrical and plumbing skills at the new sector that we have brought here for skills development,” he said. Excited royal family members and council members John Chiloane and Tshegofatso Chiloane praised him. “Now it’s time for your coronation as our leader,” said Tshegofatso. Mpumalanga co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) MEC Mandla Ndlovu said: “Your inauguration today will help us and accelerate delivery in the community. We will monitor very closely the relationship between the municipality, the Tribal Council and your people. “Today, as you take over, we commit as the Department of Cogta that we will provide you with the necessary support as well to improve the lives of our people.” Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa president Kgoshi Mathibela Mokoena said: “You are graduating from boyhood to a leader, kgoshi. But for his dignity he must marry soon, so his people must not go around hunting for their kgoshi. We need your successors directly from you. “As you’re inaugurated today, you don’t have enemies. You lead everyone equally so, and forgive all those who showed you their back. But be careful what you eat from even those who cook for you. Royal family, we thank you for having given us him as your kgoshi. But don’t come tomorrow and show us a new face.”