THE sad news of the death of legendary photojournalist Mike “Sponono” Mzileni has sent shock waves in the media industry and among his family, friends and former colleagues. His daughter, Nandi Mzileni, confirmed to Daily Sun that he died on Wednesday, 1 June. Tributes have since been pouring in. Former colleague Len Khumalo said: “I am shocked and feeling weakened by the passing of my brother, Mike. I was looking forward to having his second exhibition together with me. We worked together at The Post years ago, and became friends. Later in life, our children became friends too. Death is an enemy because it takes away our loved ones. I will miss you.” Another veteran photographer Rashid Lombard said: “I met Mike in 1987 through Alf Kumalo while on an assignment in Joburg. From then on, we bonded after losing a bit of a contact. Our last conversation was about his daughter, who had taken an interest in his archives. This was the best news for Bra Mike, who sounded very proud and that his heritage resources will have a long life.” ALSO READ | Senior journalist turned Shakes Mashaba’s taxi
driver Nkululeko Khumalo, who curated both Bra Mike’s last exhibitions at the Market Theatre Photo Workshop in December and in the North West University in February, said: “My heart is breaking to hear about the passing of my second dad, baba Mike. I loved how he would reprimanded me. He told me when he sees me, he sees Azania. Every time I spoke to him on the phone and spoke to him face to face, he guided me. He always told me to take care of elders and continue bringing recognition to our predecessors in the media industry.” Nkululeko shared that he got the privilege to know Bra Mike, his family and people around him. “I was granted the privilege to work on your archives and know you, not only as a legend, but as a father. You loved your children, life, and to educate. Thank you so much for constantly educating me. I love you baba Sponono.” ALSO READ | POISONED KIDS: HE SAW DEATH COMING! Top photographer Siphiwe Mhlambi said: “I grew up without a father, and Bra Mike became my father. He was strict, but helped me achieve all my goals as a photojournalist. When I joined City Press in 1990, he was the first person to receive me. He took me around the office to introduce me. He was my strict father, teacher and mentor, and I loved him with all my heart. I’m sad to hear about his passing.” “Bra Mike, as he was fondly known in the media
circles by his colleagues, had been in and out of hospital since early 2021.
His health started deteriorating since January 2022, and thereafter, he was
never the same,” said his son, Kwame Mzileni, the family’s spokesperson. Bra Mike’s career, that spanned more than 50 years, included being featured in the World Press Photo Competition in The Hague in 1966, then in 1985 he was named JPS Sports Photographer of the Year. He was appointed as a judge in the 1996 and 2002 Fuji Photo Press Awards and in 1987. He worked with Zuluboy ZB Molefe to come up with a book, titled A Common Hunger To Sing. In 2008, he completed a pictorial tribute to South African music in a book, titled All That Jazz. Then last December, he had a great exhibition at the Market Laboratory Workshop. His last exhibition was in Potchefstroom in February.