A GROUP of LGBTQI community activists took to the streets on Saturday, 25 June to raise awareness about hate crimes levelled against them. The event, which took place on the streets of Tafelsig, Cape Town, was attended by Health MEC Dr Nomafrench Mbombo and MPL Ricardo Mackenzie. Mackenzie said there had been attacks on members of the LGBTQI community in the Cape Flats. “This march is about love and tolerance of all members of our community. We have seen attacks on lesbians, particularly in the Cape Flats and it is unacceptable,” said Mackenzie. Mbombo condemned those who commit hate crimes against the LGBTQI community. She said people’s rights must be respected. Activist Ismael de Jong said it was not easy to be gay in Tafelsig but would never change who he is. “This is who I am, and I cannot do anything about it. I’m proudly gay,” he said. A GROUP of LGBTQI community activists took to the streets on Saturday, 25 June to raise awareness about hate crimes levelled against them. The event, which took place on the streets of Tafelsig, Cape Town, was attended by the Health MEC Dr Nomafrench Mbombo and a member of provincial legislation (MPL) Ricardo Mackenzie. Mackenzie said there have been attacks on members of the LGBTQI community in the Cape flats and should come to an end. “This march is about love and tolerance of all members of our community. We have seen attacks on lesbian people, particularly in the Cape Flats and it is unacceptable. This march is about highlighting the plight of and attacks on our LGBTQI community. We are here to support them,” said Mackenzie. Mbombo condemned those who commit hate crimes against the LGBTQI community. “Don’t fight other people because they love someone who is like them – the whole thing is about love. You cannot police someone on how to love another person,” said Mbombo. The MEC said every person was born from the womb and it is wrong to treat others as if they came from somewhere different. “All of us were born, all of us were made from a mother and a father, so when we hate her because she is a lesbian it means you also hate the one who made her,” said Mbombo. LGBTQI activist from Tafelsig, Joanie Fredricks, said: “I’m deeply touched, moved and inspired because for many years I have been flying my own flag as an openly gay woman. As a community leader and a lesbian, it is an extremely lonely road and I have been looking around for who is willing to step out with me. “Unfortunately, this is a sensitive issue. I’m grateful today that we have top government officials supporting us.” Activist Ismael de Jong said it is not easy to be gay in Tafelsig but he will never change who he is. “This is who I am, and I cannot do anything about it. I’m proudly gay,” he said. Mbombo said people’s rights must be respected. “The rights of people need to be respected, I’m who I am, they are who they are because of the love of God.”