FIVE suspects including four minors were arrested for the murder a Nigerian man (25) and gang rape of three women, aged between 27 and 35. They are due to appear in the Bethal Magistrates Court on Monday, 20 June. Police spokesman Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said one of the suspects is 16 years-old, while three are younger than 17. “Police received a complaint from Bethal Hospital about a man who was admitted with multiple stab wounds, but he unfortunately succumbed to his injuries. “An investigation by the police revealed that on Friday, 17 June, a group of about five men reportedly had an altercation with the man, who then ran towards a local petrol station in Bethal. It is alleged the man was pursued by the suspects, thereby stabbing him several times,” he said. Mohlala said medical personnel were notified about the incident and took him to hospital. But the victim was later certified dead. He said the dead man was reportedly identified by his family as June Mwafor. “Police learnt through their probe that after the incident, the suspects proceeded to a house where they found three women and allegedly gang raped them before fleeing the scene on foot. “A team consisting of Bravo Security Company, members from Bethal and Secunda crime intelligence and Emzinoni, converged with the sole purpose to bring the suspects to book. It was not long before the five were cornered and arrested,” he said. Mohlala said the police were working in collaboration with other partners, including probation officers and social workers as some of the suspects are minors. “Police can’t rule out the possibility of the five being involved in some kind of gangsterism. However, this will form part of the investigation,” he said. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Manamela is concerned about the number of young people who are found to be in conflict with the law. She reassured the public that the police will continue to work tirelessly to dismantle any form of criminal groupings or syndicates that terrorise communities.