SIPHO Mkhatshwa, who is accused number one in the Hillary Gardee murder case, has told the court that he had no motive to kill Gardee. He said this at the Mbombela Magistrates Court where he was applying for bail on Thursday, 2 June. Mkhatshwa said he had never met the victim or had any kind of relationship with her. “I don’t know them. I never had any association or business with them. “I have never harboured any grudges and I have no reason because I don’t know these people. “To emphasise the points that I have already made,I did not know the victim. I had no association with the deceased. I wish the court can take this into consideration to say that I have no motive for doing such an inhumane thing to her,” he said. I honestly feel for the family and the manner in which she passed on is very pathetic Mkhatshwa claimed that he was forced to sign a confession, of which he doesn’t know its content to date,  that implicated him and his co-accused. ALSO READ | POISONED KIDS: HE SAW DEATH COMING! He claimed he signed because he feared for his life after he was allegedly tortured by the cops. The 39-year-old is facing charges of rape, murder, conspiracy, kidnapping, possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition, as well as defeating the ends of justice. He said on the night of his arrest, he was woken by blue lights. and when he investigated what what happening, he saw the cops pointing guns at his windows. “All of a sudden, there were hard knocks on my bedroom windows. People were pointing firearms on the windows. “I was instructed from the bedroom not to touch anything and to go and open the door. “Upon opening the door, there were was a line ofpolice officers pointing firearms. They instructed me to lie down and cable tied me. I was assaulted. and at that time I was wearing my boxer shots, I was searched around my private parts and the beating continued. “My heavily pregnant wife was half naked and asked why were they beating me like this and that’s when she was insulted.” Mkhatshwa alleges that the cops never informed or produced any identification to indicate that they were police officers and were there to arrest him. He said the cops were on a fishing expedition on that day. as they wanted him to answer what favored them at that time. “Each time I answered their question in a manner that didn’t favour them, they would put a plastic over my head so that I could not breathe. ,” and it happened numerously. As time went on, t “They connected a machine to my toes and used it to electrocute me. On many occasions I thought I was dying. ALSO READ | Three kids die after ‘eating poisoned food meant
for rats’ and you could feel that the voltage has been increased. Mkhatshwa said while the cops were allegedly assaulting him they informed him that police minister wanted the outcome of the arrest within 72 hours, he said the only thing that they told him was that they have evidence that links him to a crime scene. “I did not voluntarily sign the confession statement; it’s a product of serious torture,” he said. I was never afforded the opportunity to consult with my legal representative. The statement is not factually correct, any person reading that statement can see that it is a product of torture, “he said He said he has since written a letter to the IPID and he was told that the matter is under investigation. He further asked the court to release him on bail so that he can be able to register his four days old child for a birth certificate.  and also focus on his health as well as that of his wife. The state opposed his bail. State prosecutor, Advocate Ntsika Mpolweni, said they were going to prove in court that he knew Gardee through cellphone records. The case was postponed to Friday, 3 June.