A GRANDFATHER, who is a well-respected church leader, has been thrown behind bars for allegedly turning his granddaughter into his sex slave and impregnating her. It’s alleged that the 78-year-old from Inanda, north of Durban, started raping his granddaughter when she was only 14 years old. The girl, who is now 19 years old, fell pregnant and the grandfather allegedly attempted to pin the pregnancy on someone else. The girl told family members everything and they opened a case against him. KZN MEC for Social Development Nonhlahla Khoza commended the cops for the swift arrest and described the madala’s act as barbaric. “It is disgusting that people who are supposed to protect children in our communities are the ones who abuse them. We hope that the police will get to the bottom of this,” she said. Khoza said it was clear that no child was safe when there were such people in our communities. “We call on the law enforcement agencies to arrest even those who kept quiet when they knew that the child was being abused. We need to expose the accomplices in such crimes. We welcome the arrest of the grandfather and he must face the full might of the law,” she said. Khoza said the justice system had to send out a strong message that there was no place in society for such inhumane acts. She dispatched a team of social workers to provide psycho-social support to the family and the girl. She revealed that the social workers would also remove the pregnant teenager from her home and take her to a shelter. KZN police spokeswoman, Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo, said they expected the man to make a brief appearance before the Ntuzuma Magistrate Court today, 22 June. Ngcobo said: “It is alleged that the suspect from Newtown A in Inanda is a foster parent to the girl and they have been living together since her mother passed away. She alleges that her grandfather started raping her from 1 January 2017 until 31 May 2022.” She said the matter was reported to Inanda police on Tuesday, 21 June, and was assigned to the Inanda Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit for further investigation. Police immediately arrested the suspect. “We are appealing to communities to be more vigilant and report such atrocities to the police immediately. Young children should be protected from these despicable predators that live in our communities. “Community leaders and organisations are requested to visit vulnerable children to ensure that those who are tasked to protect them do not abuse them,” said Ngcobo.