THE President of Namibia Hage Geingob has once again denied that he 'inappropriately' helped President Cyril Ramaphosa with the apprehension of the suspects from Namibia. In a detailed statement, the Namibian Presidency also lambasted claims of Geingob alleged involvement in the Phala Phala farm scandal, calling the allegations slanderous, outrageous and unfortunate. The Namibian Presidency in statement ‘categorically’ denied insinuations that President Geingob may have acted inappropriately and/or participated or abetted in the apprehension of the individuals concerned. In a statement, the Presidency said the revelations by media houses in South Africa and Namibia that former spy boss Arthur Fraser had lodged a criminal complaint against the Ramaphosa, certain individuals and a number of media houses, out of context and clearly motivated by malice or other ulterior motives, have been suggesting, without any factual basis, that President Geingob, may have used his office, in a manner incompatible with the laws of the Republic of Namibia, to assist President Ramaphosa. “The slanderous allegations and insinuations made about President Geingob are outrageous and unfortunate.” The statements further reads, “There is absolutely no truth in the allegations that President Geingob inappropriately used his office to assist President Ramaphosa. “The Presidency had an opportunity to look in particular at paragraph 13.23 of Mr Fraser’s statement under oath, which is publicly available, and which reads that: “President Ramaphosa sought the assistance of the President of Namibia, President Hage Geingob in apprehending the suspect in Namibia.” As can be seen from the above-quoted part of Mr Fraser’s statement, it does not make any allegation of criminality on the part of President Geingob, except a suggestion that President Ramaphosa “sought” assistance from President Geingob “in apprehending” – which literally means “assistance in arresting”– the concerned suspect, who is a South African citizen and who at the time was alleged to have unlawfully entered Namibia. READ: How Cyril's millions scandal hit Namibia! The Namibia EFF have also approached the Nambian Ombudsman to investigate the allegation against Geingob, who was named in Fraser’s affidavit. The party in their media briefing said that if the report comes back saying President was involved in criminality, then he should be arrested. ALSO REA: Cyril's millions: GTI and Ford Ranger seized The six cars belong to the alleged suspects who stole from Ramaphosa have reportedly been seized in Namibia.    