TEACHERS at Brandvlei Primary School in Randfontein are going beyond the call of duty to ensure their pupils enjoy their schooling days. For the past three years, through their Welfare Committee, teachers at the school have been identifying pupils who are in need and helping them so they could be on the same level as others. On Friday, 3 June, the school had a charity event where they gave pupils soup and beanies as part of their winter drive. Committee member Tokologo Mareka told Daily Sun: “Most parents are not working and that contributes to the problem of uniforms but government is helping with uniforms. But most of the time it’s summer uniform and during winter is when we see the parents’ struggle.” She said most kids went to school without beanies, jerseys and socks. “The situation became worse last year. Covid-19 left many children as orphans, which led to some pupils being taken to other provinces, such as Limpopo and the North West.” She said the Welfare Committee looked after needy children, and it was also there to assist teachers as well if they had challenges.  “We have a winter drive, where we give out soup, beanies, socks and sometimes shoes.” She said their faces lit up when they were given these items. Deputy principal Mpho Mazibe said they started the winter drive because of the socio-economic background of their area. He said the purpose of the drive was not only to give pupils soup and beanies, it was also to inspire them to say school was a safe environment. “This is also for us to appreciate our children irrespective of where they come from.” He said during winter, there was a lot of absenteeism due to the conditions at the homes of some pupils. He said they hoped they could get more assistance from businesses in the area so they could do more for the children. A 12-year-old grade 7 pupil, who was also a beneficiary, told Daily Sun he was excited and wasn’t aware teachers would assist them to that extent. “I am impressed. I wish they can do this for more kids,” he said.