HIS face is recognised by most motorists who drive past the MultiChoice building in Randburg, Gauteng. But many didn’t know that David Sejobe, a Fidelity security officer stationed at the building, cycles to work from Orange Farm every day. David, who was diagnosed with diabetes and asthma, said he was advised by his late dad to cycle to improve his health. To honour his dad, David started to cycle from Gauteng to Venda in Limpopo on Wednesday, 15 June, and arrived at his destination on Thursday, 16 June, to attend his father’s tombstone unveiling. “I’m doing this to also encourage others to cycle their ill-health away,” said David. Fidelity Security, MultiChoice and SuperSport came forward to make his journey easy. He also got a surprise radio interview on 702 with Relebogile Mabotja. and was honoured by his bosses for going the extra mile. Fidelity provided a chopper and support car, helping him with lights and cycling gear. The Fidelity Service Group CEO, Wahl Bartmann, said: “We had a chopper following him and he was issued with an action camera to film the journey and some cash.” “This is such an exciting day and makes me proud. We get compliments about our staff regularly as we always try to instil a customer centric culture in our people, but the fact that so many people went out of their way to compliment David is a true testament to how amazing he is. He really is an asset to our company and an asset to his community.”MultiChoice senior manager for reputation, Clayton Cohen, said David always has a story to tell and they also wanted to be part of his journeyHe saidthey arranged a new bike on behalf of SuperSport. Cycling expert, coach and founder at Cycle Lab, Andrew McLean, said they provided service for David’s bike and made sure he had proper nutrition. Bartmann said they were overwhelmed by the generosity and support provided to David. “It just shows how the actions of one person can have such a profoundly positive impact on so many. From his Fidelity family we wish David safe travels. No doubt he will be brightening the route with his huge smile which we have all become accustomed to,” he said.