SCORES of mourners gathered at Ratanda Multipurpose centre
on Saturday 04 June to bid farewell to the three siblings who were poisoned by
their father. One speaker after another spoke of how humble and respectful
the three boys were. Residents, local business people, local taxi associations,
Lesedi municipality, Tshipi-Noto funeral parlour and Gauteng department of
Education came together to make the funeral a success. The three boys died last week Thursday after being given a
poisoned energy drink by their father. The father attempted to commit suicide but didn't succeed. He's now under police guard at the hospital. The 40 year old dad who was working as an electrician had
since asked for forgiveness. The siblings drank the energy drinks, given to them by their
father before going to school on that fateful day. Soon after arriving at the school they complained of stomach
pains and their teachers called the ambulance but sadly the two who were pupils
at Khanya-Lesedi high in Ratanda died before the ambulance could arrive. When paramedics arrived they tried to resuscitate them but
it was too late. Katleho (13) and Lehlohonolo (16) Khoabane died in the
school's sick room. Few minutes later Tebogo Ngcongwane (6) who was at Ratanda
Primary school followed. Eleven year old Neo Khoabane who survived the poison is
still recovering from hospital. READ: Three kids die after 'eating poisoned food meant for rats' The grief-stricken mom Ntswaki Khoabane (35) wept
uncontrollably when one of her son's soccer club friends came to pay tribute to
Katleho during the service.  MEC Panyaza Lesufi who also attended the funeral said
extended sincere condolences to the family. "We hope our presence and support will make your pain
better. We call upon pastors to pause and pray for the child who is still in
hospital. MEC also thanked all those who extend help to the family.  "We appeal to the authorities to restrict galephirime.
If we have to choose between rats and human beings, we rather choose humans and
rather find a way to deal with rats. "God please save us, it’s enough now. We have lost
three more kids in Ivory Park due to galephirime poisoning." MEC also commended residents of Ratanda for unity and love
they demonstrated towards the family. 