DYLAN Kerr has successfully helped another DStv Premiership side escape relegation. Kerr steered Swallows FC sinking ship, and saved them via the promotion/ relegation playoffs from going down. This is the third team to be saved by Brit as he guided Black Leopards and Baroka to survival in 2019 and 2020, respectively. Swallows ended the University of Pretoria's dream of playing in the top flight next season when they edged them 1-0 in the playoff final match at Lucas Moripe Stadium on Wednesday afternoon. The victory saw The Diube Birds finishing at the top of the three-team mini-league with seven points from four playoff matches. Yagan Sasman scored the most important goal in the 64th minute when they beat AmaTuks which saw them flying back to the elite league. Swallows found themselves in the playoffs after an uninspiring campaign where they ended in second-last place in their second season back in the Premiership. In the playoffs, they joined Cape Town All Stars, and AmaTuks. All Stars were the first team to be out of contention for a place in the PSL just after three matches where they lost twice and drew once. Swallows and AmaTuks pushed until the final match of the tournament which was the decider. AmaTuks came to this match needing at least a draw to return to Premiership for the first time since being relegated in the 2015-16 season. However, they failed to hold Swallows who needed a win at all costs. Swallows should have wrapped the match in the first half based on the chances that they created on the day. But lack of killer instinct which has been their Achilles heel the whole season derailed them from wrapping up the game in the early stages despite dominating the first half. In the second half, Swallows continued with their dominance and were rewarded in the 64th minute. AmaTuks also had a couple of chances but they failed to find the back of the net. AmasTuks who had finished second in the GladAfrica championship last season will now return to the First Division and try again next season. 