A PROTESTER was killed and a councillor’s house, including a bus and two vehicles, were set alight during a violent protest in the Eastern Cape Nkosinathi Lukas (38) was killed when an electricity pole fell on him. This was after protesters dug up concrete electricity poles on the Rocklands Road in Kariega, in the Eastern Cape, today, 2 June. The protesters also torched a councillor’s house, a bus and two vehicles, demanding better service delivery. Mzwandile Jolingana, who lost the car he bought four months ago, said: “I was rushing from home to go and give my children some money when I came across a group of people who had barricaded the road. ALSO READ | Three kids die after ‘eating poisoned food meant
for rats’ “They violently forced me out of my car. I tried to talk to them but my pleas fell on deaf ears. They said we are loitering while they don’t have electricity. I’m lucky to be alive because those people were so violent. “It was very painful to lose my car in a protest that had nothing to do with me. What makes matters worse is that my car was not insured,” he said. Community leader Siyabonga Sitemele said: “For the past four years, we’e been receiving empty promises when it comes to service delivery.  “We only want plot allocation for our shacks. We also want electricity, water and toilets. “When our councillor took office, he promised to attend to our grievances but now he’s giving us the un-around. “We will not back down until all our demands are met. In this metro, in order for residents to get attention, they need to take to the streets and burn things. ALSO READ | POISONED KIDS: HE SAW DEATH COMING! “We are doing exactly that because we want their attention. We want the mayor to come and address us,” he said. Police confirmed that a man was killed and some property was torched. Police spokeswoman Captain Andre Beetge said: “A group of unknown people barricaded the Rocklands Road passing Gunguluza shortly before 5am. Stones were thrown at passing vehicles. “Firefighters and police arrived on the scene and their vehicles were also pelted with stones. “No arrests have been made and police are investigating an inquest docket into the death of Lukas,” said Beetge. Municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said: “We are aware of the issues raised by residents. “As a municipality, we are working around the clock to resolve the residents’ problems. We are shocked to learn that residents are protesting because we’re still working on the issue of rezoning their area as there was an invasion of land.”