THE Hawks have had a meeting with former spy boss and
correctional services commissioner Arthur Fraser as part of its investigation
into the alleged cover-up of the robbery into President Cyril Ramaphosa's farm. Fraser's lawyers in a terse media statement on Wednesday
June 15 confirmed the meeting had taken place on the same day which it said was
to assist the Hawks in their investigations into a complaint against the
president. Fraser is the complainant in a criminal charge he opened
against Ramaphosa for his alleged role in a cover-up of the robbery in his
Phala Phala Farm in Limpopo where millions of foreign currency was hidden in
furniture was stolen. "He (Fraser) has furnished the Hawks with additional
information and details to enable them to do their work. Mr Fraser appreciates
the professionalism and the speed with which the Hawks have responded to the
complaint," the lawyers' statement. Fraser at the beginning of the month shocked the nation when
he revealed that he has opened a criminal charge against Ramaphosa following a
robbery at his farm where R62 million was stolen, saying the president had
broken the law by not report the matter to the police. He claimed he had given police proof in the form of pictures
and video of how the robbers who were Namibians broke into the house and stole
the money. He further revealed that the robbers were working in collaboration
with Ramaphosa's domestic worker in the farm who it emerged was also Namibian. Ramaphosa has since denied any unlawful conduct and said the
money was from the sale of game animals from the farm. This has also invited
calls by opposition parties who have called for a parliamentary inquiry into
his conduct. The request for an inquiry was shot down by National
Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula who said the request had substantive
motion. But ATM has been relentless in their quest and has now submitted a
substantive motive, pointing out that Ramaphosa has violated the law by
revealing that he was running the private while he is in office. This was after Ramaphosa seemingly shot himself in the foot
when addressing the ANC Limpopo conference said: "However, I would like to
say that I I'm a farmer. I'm in the cattle business and the game business and
through that business which has been declared in Parliament and all over I buy
and I sell animals. "Sometimes people buy these animals, and some of the
people were bought some of the animals some of them are here. I do it. Yes. I
do it through the sales, sometimes through cash or sometimes through
transfers." ATM is arguing that Ramaphosa has violated the Constitution
which prohibits him to do paid work. 