WITH loading shedding taking place around the country, vandalism at substations remains a setback for the full operational capacity of electricity to the communities. The City of Tshwane condemns the vandalism of substations as they say it’s taking the city backward instead of continuing to provide electricity in each home. The MMC for Utility Services and Regional Operation & Coordination, Daryl Johnston, said they are requesting residents to assist with information in relation to vandalism of substations in Mahube on Friday, 3 June and Nellmapius on Thursday, 2 June. He said the city was currently fighting a scourge of vandalism aimed at its electricity infrastructure daily. “On Thursday, 2 June critical infrastructure was stolen out of the Nellmapius substation, reducing the stability of the substation and increasing the chance of future power failure, affecting the area,” he said. ALSO READ: Bad news for Table Mountain visitors “On Friday we were made aware of a break in at the Mahube Valley substation in Mamelodi where criminals broke through welded doors to vandalize equipment, breaking panel doors and stealing them. Some of these break-ins appear to be purely for the purpose of destroying property and negatively affecting the ability of the City to provide critical electricity to the local community.” He said they were meeting the infrastructure protection team and senior city leadership to explore all avenues and see how they could fight against this deliberate destruction of the city’s infrastructure. “I want to implore residents to please let Tshwane Metro Police Department and the city know if one is aware of attempts to damage our infrastructure. Every case of vandalism requires repairs using the same budget that we need to improve and expand our electricity provision across the city. “When someone damages a substation, they rob Tshwane residents of their access to electricity. “We need to work together as government and residents to protect our infrastructure so Tshwane can provide a stable supply of electricity needed both for normal life and to grow our economy. These attacks on our infrastructure are an attack on our shared future and we condemn them in the strongest way,” said Johnston. Johnson added that the matter has been referred to the police as their investigations continue.