CIVIL societies in Mpumalanga are concerned about the increasing number of kidnappings in the province. This follows the recent kidnapping of a woman in Nkomazi, Mpumalanga. Matshidiso Ndlovu (28) was allegedly snatched by two men in her house on Sunday, 19 June. She was with her gogo and siblings when the men broke the door, entered the house and forcibly took her. It is alleged the suspects later demanded R20 000 for her to be released. Lorraine Khoza, of the Lorraine Khoza Foundation, said a reform in the justice system is needed to stop gender-based violence and femicide incidents from escalating. She said if law enforcement agencies were playing their role, there wouldn’t be a rise in kidnapping cases. Khoza said the cases continue to go up because people feel the justice system is weak. At least, four females have been abducted in the space of two months in the province. Two of them were found dead, one was found alive and police are still searching for one. Hillary Gardee was kidnapped in April and her lifeless body was found dumped at a timber plantation outside Mbombela in May. Three people have been arrested for her murder and are expected back in court in July. Bontle Mashiyane (6) was also reportedly kidnapped in April and her mutilated body was found dumped not far from her home in May. Five people, including her two neighbours and inyanga, were arrested and charged with kidnapping and murder. All suspects are expected to appear in court today, 24 June. Meanwhile, Nondumiso Zenani, who was kidnapped earlier this month, was found alive. The 24-year-old was kidnapped while hitchhiking. The suspects demanded a R10 000 ransom for her to be released. No one has been arrested. Lindiwe Ntuli-Tloubatla, who is a gender activist, said the kidnappings that are happening are gender-related as the kidnappers target women and children. She said they were not targeting men because of their masculinity. She said people are willing to do anything for self-enrichment and don’t value life. “They don’t care that they disrupt families in the process,” said Ntuli-Tloubatla. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said so far, the police are doing well in terms of handling cases of reported missing persons. “A majority of people who are reported missing are found. Only a few are not. The perpetrators are also arrested,” he said. He said motives behind these crimes are money and jealousy in love triangles.