THE KZN Department of Social Development has dispatched a team of social workers to assist a family that lost five of their loved ones in a house fire. The department said the two remaining family members need psycho-social support. This is after five family members, including a two-week-old baby Zamokuhle, Onge (2), Noluthando, (9), Anathi (9) and their mother Bongekile Mthembu (37), from KwaNhlalwane area under the Umzumbe Local Municipality tragically burnt to death in their home on Saturday, 24 June. At this stage, it is unclear what caused the fire. KZN MEC for social development Nonhlanhla Khoza expressed shock following the incident. Khoza said: “It is with a heavy heart that we convey our deepest and most sincere condolences to the Mthembu family for losing so many family members. There are no words that can comfort them at this stage as they are going through a tough time.” Khoza said police investigations will help with getting detailed information about what caused the fire. “With the little information we received from emergency services and neighbours, we are grateful that some family members survived. “Having noted that family members and some neighbours are in distress, we have dispatched a team of social workers to help them. All these people need psycho-social support. We will help them until they regain their strength,” she said. Khoza said it was unfortunate to lose vulnerable people in such an incident. She lauded neighbours for risking their lives to save the victims. “We are thankful to those who came to assist in dousing the fire and ensuring that some people survived. It is very early stages now to know the cause of the fire. It is very difficult for members of the family and our hearts go out to them and we wish them a speedy recovery,” she said. KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Mr. Sihle Zikalala joined by Social Development MEC, Mrs. Nonhlanhla Khoza will tomorrow, Tuesday, 28 June 2022 visit KwaNhlalwane area in Umzumbe Local Municipality to pay their homage to the family who lost seven members in a horror house fire. Constable Thenjisiwe Ngcobo confirmed the incident that claimed the lives of five family members. “Two people were taken to hospital for medical attention. An inquest docket was opened at St Faiths Police Station for investigation. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated,” she said.