THE Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the Free State has called for a sentence of 100 years with no parole for the son of a slain teacher, who allegedly murdered his mother and chopped her body into pieces. EFF provincial chairwoman Mandisa Makesini said the violent and senseless killing of retired teacher Modiehi Mokoena (62) must tell lawmakers and the judiciary to opt for harsh sentences with no parole. “The suspect is no longer a normal human being. He deserves to be jailed for 100 years with no parole. We do not support the death penalty. But we said South Africa should treat gender-based violence as a state of emergency and end parole on serious criminal charges. “We are going to write a letter to the provincial Department of Education requesting them to bring back daily prayers to our schools so that we can overcome the evil spirit within the pupils,” said Makesini. Mokoena had retired last September last year. Her former principal Mosiuwa Finger said she was always fighting for quality education. Maluti-a-Phofung Municipality Mayor Gilbert Mokotso told the mourners the municipality is in the process of deploying 160 security officials who will deal with the uncontrollable selling of drugs across Phuthaditjhaba, Harrismith and Kestel. “We have learnt with regret that the alleged perpetrator is a drug addict. We want to make Maluti-a-Phofung a better place, with no crime, no drugs,” said Mokotso. Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela said the suspect deserves no forgiveness. “It’s painful to carry a child for nine months unaware that you are carrying your killer. The suspect is heartless and he deserve no forgiveness. “We are going to march to Phuthaditjhaba Magistrates Court to make sure that he is not going to be released on bail,” said Ntombela. Mokoena’s husband was stabbed three times, allegedly by the suspect. It is alleged that he had arrived home and found his son putting Mokoena’s remains inside a plastic bag. The accused is expected to make his second appearance in the Phuthaditjhaba Magistrates Court on Tuesday, 21 June. He is facing charges of murder and attempted murder.