Cyril Ramaphosa finally receives report after there had been some delays in the handing over of the final part of the State Capture Commission Report. Initially, the report was supposed to reach President Ramaphosa on Monday which was postponed to Wednesday at 16:00, which did not happen as well, until 6:30 p.m. The delay raised some eyebrows from the people of Mzanzi. Despite the tensions in the anticipation of the fifth and final instalment of the report, the Presidency came forward and apologized for the delay. Ramaphosa received the report from Chief Justice Raymond Zondo at the Union Buildings in Tshwane on Wednesday evening. Before handing over the report,  Zondo started by apologizing to Ramaphosa and the people of Mzansi for taking too long to hand over the final report. Zondo said there were challenges, but the report had to be handed over at the end. “I really apologies to you Mr President. This day has finally arrived. It has been 4 and half years since the Zondo Commission was established and about 4 years of the hearing of oral evidence,” said Zondo. “When we started in August 2018, we didn’t know it would take this long to reach the point we have reached. It’s been a long journey filled with challenges, but I believe it has been a period during which South Africans have shown support and love.” Said Zondo Zondo further said there were times whereby his team went on without getting paid, but they were determined to make this work. He said the report has two parts, parts 5 and 6, in which part 5 had 1 and 2 Volumes, while part 6 had 4 volumes. “The report deals with a number of issues such as SOEs like the SABC, state security also the Waterkloof landing, Vrede Dairy Farm, Parliamentary oversight, Money flows such as the money in the state capture and how it was moved out of the country.” Said Zondo Zondo added that he does not have any regrets whatsoever about being on the commission and having done the report that has been finally handed over to the President. Zondo added that the report did not contain and did not cover matters of the Law Enforcement agencies as the scope of such matters was bigger than it has been previously anticipated. On the other hand, the recipient of the report, President Cyril Ramaphosa, said he will be studying the report carefully while making notes and that within four months it will be presented to parliament for implementation. Ramaphosa said the final handover represents the fulfilment of the remedial action that was set out in the state capture report issued by the then public protector, Advocate Thuli Madonsela. “This official submission brings an end to the work of the commission and marks the fulfilment of the weighty mandate given to Justice Zondo in January 2018. “In line with the directive of the high court, I will formally present the report to parliament, and I know in this regard we will be working together and collectively we will deal with state capture and outline precisely what needs to be done," Ramaphosa said. “The report is far more than a record of widespread corruption, fraud and abuse, it is also an instrument through which the country can work to ensure that such events are never allowed to happen again.” He said Ramaphosa added that the final report will be available tonight for download on the Presidency website, as was the case with the previous reports. On the other hand, the Democratic Alliance (DA), said the delivery of the final Zondo Report to the Presidency was the culmination of a judicial process that has documented the darkest period in contemporary South African history. Leader of the DA, John Steenhuisen, said: “The report could not have come at a more critical time as South Africa grapples with the reality that the ANC is, without a shadow of a doubt, the single most destabilizing and destructive force to the future of our country and its people.” Steenhuisen added: “If the years of work and millions of rands poured into the Zondo Commission are to have any use to our country, the final report, and its recommendations, must become the blueprint for intense legislative reform for South Africa moving forward.”