“THE ANC is fast running out of time to redeem itself and regain credibility before it goes extinct.” This was the warning by treasurer general Paul Mashatile while opening the Limpopo elective conference outside Polokwane on Friday, 3 June. Mashatile’s admission followed poor performance in the by-elections, showing how the party was further losing supporters among voters in its stronghold areas such as Soweto. The performance came at the back of the party’s dismal performance in the local government elections, that saw it achieving below 50%. READ: ANC mum on Ramaphosa charges! Many leaders had raised fear that the party was heading for a below 50% mark in the national elections, that would result in a coalition government. Leaders, including President Cyril Ramaphosa, have pointed to rampant corruption by members in government and poor service delivery. The party has been tearing itself apart with factional battles. Addressing delegates at the conference underway at The Ranch Hotel, Mashatile said it was time the party did everything in its power to renew itself and close the social distance between it and the people. “Ours must be a listening movement that is not arrogant; that is responsive to the conditions of people and speaks their language; that lives in and among people and stands for and not against them,” he said. “The renewal must also include restoration of the historic, progressive values of our movement – values of hard work, service, honesty, unity, selflessness, sacrifice, discipline, democratic debate, criticism and self-criticism.” Mashatile added that a renewed ANC would have to draw into its ranks, men and women, driven only by the desire to serve the people selflessly without seeking personal or material gain. ALSO READ| Why is the ANC protecting it's organisation Echoing Mashatile’s sentiments, outgoing provincial chairman and premier Stan Mathabatha told delegates that it was time for the party to be honest with itself that it was corrupt individuals whose reputation had weakened the party. Mathabatha, delivering his political report, said the tendency of people joining the party for the control or close to state resources had become cancerous. He said this tendency didn’t just come out of nowhere, but had been building up since 1994. Mathabatha said the moral degeneration in the party, fuelled by greed and the question of what must be done, could not be ignored any longer. “We must be honest with ourselves, even if it exposes our weakness. The answer should not be cosmetic because the existence of the ANC is under threat. Whatever the case, the ANC has to rescue itself from this negative tendency. We need to defeat it. We must make a U-turn from this tendency that separates us from our people. We have become foreign creatures to our people,” he said. Nominations are expected later in the evening, where Mathabatha will square up with former friend public works MEC Dickson Masemola from a rival slate.