THE Congress of the People (COPE) has called for the
Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the Phala Phala farm scandal. This comes as the calls continue to mount for the President
to step down following the alleged concealment of crime at his Limpopo based
farm. Cope Spokesman Dennis Bloem said the allegations against
President Ramaphosa are very serious and damaging. “The only way to clear the President of this dark cloud
hanging over the head of the President, is for him to institute a Judicial
Commission of Inquiry headed by a retired Judge. The President must go and answer all questions that are
hanging in the air.” Over the years, COPE has proved itself to be at the
forefront in the fight against corruption. We will keep on fighting anyone who
is involved in corruption,” Bloem said. READ: Arthur Fraser opens a criminal case against Ramaphosa! Bloem said the case that Arthur Fraser laid against
President Ramaphosa must be put under a microscope to look very carefully what
the aims and objectives are of raising an issue that occurred in 2020. “Is it really aimed to fight crime or is it a way to get rid
of President Ramaphosa who is seen as a stumbling block who has closed the
taps, and sitting with the keys of the vault while many of them and their
families are starving. “Many of these thieves can see the doors of prison are
slowly opening for them, and they must do everything possible to remove
President Ramaphosa from office.” Bloem added, “We are well aware that the next target of
these thieves are Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. We know that they are very
bitter and angry with Chief Justice Raymond Zondo for sending their godfather
Jacob Zuma to prison. He said that the Zondo Commission Report is in danger, the
same way the Anti-corruption Unit the Scorpions were disbanded.  “For close to five years the country and the world heard the
most horrifying evidence on how cadres and leaders of the ANC were involved in
State Capture and Corruption before the Zondo Commission.  “President Ramaphosa told the country not so long ago that
ANC is accused No 1 on corruption in the dock,” Bloem said.