Two pilots are lucky to be alive after the light plane that they were flying in crash-landed in Luzuko, in Lower Crossroads on Tuesday 28 June evening. The City of Cape Town MMC for Safety and Security says Metro cops and Law Enforcement responded to the scene after they received a call from the pilot who told them that they were about to be robbed and aircraft looted flowing their crash-landing. This incident happened just before 6 pm. “A crowd quickly gathered and a pilot radioed air-traffic control calling for urgent assistance with a report of them being robbed of their personal belongings and the plane being looted. Our metro police were the first on the area as they managed to secure the area followed by the arrival of our law enforcement and traffic services,” said Smith. The plane crash-landed on an open space a few metres away from the Thabo Mbeki squatter camp.Resident Nomalizo Bhenya (56) said the plane was circulating in the sky showing that it was in distress as it was making some unusual noises. “We always see the planes around and this one was flying differently. It also had lots of smoke coming from it, so we suspected that something wrong was going on. It was flying low, something which other planes do not normally do. Within a minute it went down to the ground,” she said. Another resident Anthenkosi  Mnqayana(30) said the two men managed to get out of the plane just before it crashed to the ground. “When it crashed the two men had managed to get out so they weren’t injured much,” he said. According to Smith, the aircraft belongs to a local aviation school. “It was a training flight with a student when they experienced engine failure. Because of the actions of the experienced instructor, they were able to land their plane in an open field and managed to escape serious injuries. Both occupants have been taken in for a medical examination,” said Smith. In order to quell any possible danger from the crashed plane, Smith said Airports South Africa company intervened.“Airports Company South Africa also dispatched an appliance which proceeded to blanket the aircraft with foam to prevent any further threat of ignition. The Civil Aviation Authority has ordered SAPS to secure the scene for further investigation,” said Smith.