TEARS rolled down the cheeks of mourners as they paid their last respects to rising soccer star, Nhlamulo “Spikiri” Mathebula. The 21-year-old was laid to rest in Rolle, outside Thulamahashe in Mpumalanga, on Saturday, 18 June. Fuming residents called for the Mpumalanga police commissioner, Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Manamela, and Police Minister Bheki Cele to arrest trigger-happy gunmen who attacked them even in their homes. Spikiri’s body was found with multiple gunshots wounds at the Rolle Custom Football Team’s pitch in Rolle on Sunday, 12 June. Speaking at his funeral, Spikiri’s uncle Meshack Mathebula (33) said: “It’s difficult and hurting to gather here today because someone came and robbed us of a star like you. “We were preparing to go to Spikiri’s aunt’s daughter’s funeral that morning when we received news of his senseless killing. “But we trust that the police will find his killers and they will face the full might of the law.”  His dad Polite Mathebula (43) and his mum Phumzile Mathebula (43) expressed their grief. “My son, your death left us with a sore. We were expecting a lot from you. We know that God is the answer and he will reveal your killer,” said Polite. Spikiri’s mum’s fuming uncle, Willem Mathumba, said: “Bad luck is following us. We have lost a number of our beloved family members through murder within a short space of time and all the killers are still on the loose. “Today, we are gathered here again because of an evil did. We know the killer and he’s staying in this village. We are giving his family a grace period of a week to surrender him to the police.” Spikiri’s gogo, Matlhetlhele Machabe, said: “This is too much. We can’t blame the devil. The killer can’t use the devil as an excuse for this.” Pastor Conference Khoza of the Fountain of Living Waters Church said: “We are living in the end of times and Jesus is the only answer.” His coach and uncle Freedom Mthethwa said they have lost a good player. “We are shattered by his brutal killing. All players are badly affected. We have lost one of our good players and a son. “Our wish is that the police must leave no stone unturned until his killers are brought to book,” he said. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said: “Anyone with information should contact Detective Warrant Officer Cecil Mdluli on 072 624 5133 or 013 773 0331.”