A MEETING between President Cyril Ramaphosa and Chief Justice Raymond Zondo – to discuss the delay and timing of the final State Capture report – has raised the ire of political parties. Presidential spokesman, Vincent Magwenya, shocked the nation on Monday, 20 June when he tweeted that Ramaphosa and Zondo met in the morning to discuss the handing over of the final report. “This morning, President Ramaphosa and the Chief Justice discussed the timing of the handing over of the final Commission report. A new date and time for the handover will be announced soon,” tweeted Magwenya. According to a court extension asked by Zondo, the final report should have been handed over on Friday, 17 June. But over the weekend, the commission undertook to release the electronic version to Ramaphosa on Saturday, 18 June. In a statement, the commission later said it had encountered challenges in processing the fifth and sixth report as envisaged and that it has been agreed that it will do so on Wednesday, 22 June at a time to be announced by the Presidency. The commission apologised to the public and asked for patience and support. It’s not clear whether the commission asked for another extension or if the delay was in contempt of court as it had missed its deadlines. “The final volumes of the Part V and VI of the report are about 1 824 pages long. The volumes themselves are seven in total. In the interest of quality and reduction of unavoidable errors and as a result of calendar logistical problems, it has become necessary to allow for a responsible and proper completion of the conclusion of the Report,” it said. But the meeting between the President and Zondo raised the alarm, with parties questioning the move. UDM leader, Bantu Holomisa, described the meeting as suspicious particularly as this was on the day the report was supposed to have been handed over. “They (the commission) said they will handover the electronic version (on Saturday) have they done so. Because if they had done so they would not have been a need to meet. This whole thing is suspicious now. What if the president realised he is implicated and didn’t want it to come out. What were they discussing?” asked Holomisa. DA leader, John Steenhuisen, described the meeting as both worrying and deeply unethical and constituted a dangerous and unacceptable interference in the judicial process which cast a shadow over the independence of the judiciary and credibility of the Presidency. “At a time when trust in the Presidency is at an all-time low, any suggestion that the president may be interfering with the independent work of the commission or manipulating the timing of the report’s release is rightfully met with suspicion. “It is unheard of for any individual, who is the subject of an investigation being conducted by the state’s law enforcement and judiciary, to be able to manipulate the content of an investigative report or the timing of its release,” said Steenhuisen. He said Ramaphosa had no right to delay or obstruct justice and the meeting raised assumptions that the president wanted the report put on hold as he was directly implicated and it’s release is an inconvenience given the Phala Phala Farm burglary controversy.