 PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa has announced the suspension of public protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane pending a parliamentary probe into her fitness to hold office. The president announced his decision a day after Mkhwebane revealed that she will be investigating Ramaphosa's breach of the Ethics Code in relation to his alleged role in the cover-up of a robbery at his Phala Phala Farm in Limpopo. But the issue of whether Ramaphosa should suspend Mkhwebane while the parliament investigates whether she is fit to hold office goes back to at least last year after the public protector lost court challenges to stop a parliament committee to investigate her. Currently, the matter is back at the Constitutional Court where Mkhwebane has again the apex court to reconsider its ruling. ALSO READ| WHY son cut off mum's head and legs! Ramaphosa on Thursday, June 9 after presenting his budget vote in a press release said in accordance with section 194 (3)(a) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, he has decided to suspend Mkhwebane with immediate effect. "Advocate Mkhwebane will remain suspended until the section 194 process in the National Assembly has been completed. President Ramaphosa has fulfilled his obligation to provide Advocate Mkhwebane a fair hearing by according her sufficient time and opportunity to make submissions. "In considering each element of the Public Protector’s submissions carefully, the President has taken into account the nature of the Public Protector’s office and his own Constitutional obligations," said Ramaphosa. He said according to the Public Protector Act, if the incumbent was for any reason unable to perform her duties while the appointment of a person to the office was pending, the deputy will perform those duties and her suspension will therefore will not impede the progress of any investigations that are pending or underway. Ramaphosa said his decision to suspend Mkhwebane was the best manner to fulfill obligations of both parties to protect Constitutional institutions. The public protector's spokesman Oupa Segalwe said he was not in a position to comment as the matter was still to be discussed internally. But Mkhwebane shortly after the announcement tweeted: "Oksalayo this battle is the Lord’s. Exodus 14:14, The Lord will fight for you, and you shall hold your peace and remain at rest. Do not be deflected #glencore and #farmgate aluta continua." 