WINTER shack fires continue to pose a huge
threat to life for those who rely on open fire to survive freezing
nights. Several shack fire incidents in Gauteng have
claimed lives of the young and old people, as well as leaving thousands displaced. Ekurhuleni Disaster and Emergency Management
Services (DEMS) spokesman William Ntladi said in a statement, "Already
this winter many lives have been lost and property destroyed in the City of
Ekurhuleni (CoE) because of fires. "In the latest incident on Monday, 13
June, an elderly man died after his home in Kwa-Thema caught alight in the
early hours of the morning." He said DEMS firefighters promptly responded
when the call came in, finding the house well alight. "The lifeless body of an adult male was
found lying covered under blankets outside the burning house. Paramedics could
not find any visible burn wounds and preliminary investigations allege that
smoke inhalation contributed to his death. Another patient was hospitalised for
smoke inhalation," Ntladi said. He said DEMS remains on high alert as
temperatures around the City drop to new lows forcing many to heating sources
to keep warm. READ: Three kids, one adult perish in shack fire! Ntladi also shared some fire safety tips for
people to keep safe as temperatures drops. Braziers (coal stoves), Fireplaces, Gas,
Paraffin and electrical Heaters: Keep the room or house ventilated. Open the
windows or doors to avoid carbon monoxide and hydrogen cyanide poisoning. Put the braziers on a solid flat surface. Avoid using all heating sources in a confined
space. Furniture and linen are easily combustible. Clean the fireplace and chimney to avoid
carbon soot build-up that prevents smoke from escaping through the
chimney. Never leave open flames, either heating or
lighting sources, unattended because embers can cause a fire. Always extinguish open fires or flames when
leaving the room/house. Always burn seasoned hardwood to avoid lots of
smoke.  NB: While intoxicated, avoid heating sources
and open flame lighting sources. 