A PREGNANT woman who was living with a disability was murdered in Monontsha Village in QwaQwa, Free State, on Saturday, 4 June. Matshidiso Mokoena (31), who was pregnant with twins, was allegedly attacked by a known person in the village at her home. She and her boyfriend were sleeping when it happened. Her boyfriend, who is also living with a disability, was stabbed and admitted at Mofumahadi Manapo Mopeli Regional Hospital with critical stab wounds. The villagers told Daily Sun the suspect is a dangerous person who kills people and has never being jailed. A 33-year-old woman alleged Matshidiso is the fourth person to be killed in the village by the same suspect. ALSO READ: How to save money using tech! “I think he is above the law. We fear for our lives. The big question in our minds is who will be the next victim,” she said. Community leader Bongani Ngozo made a humble request to the villagers and government to assist the family to bury Matshidiso and her two unborn babies. “We have started a campaign to collect R20 house to house in our village. But it’s too little to cover all the funeral expenses. We call on every citizen including funeral parlours to make any contribution. As Africans we know it’s the formula to assist each other,” said Ngozo. Family spokesman Malefe Mokoena said Matshidiso was due to give birth in a few weeks. “We feel so unfortunate. We have lost three family members in a senseless attack. Matshidiso was about to give birth. We don’t know the motive behind the killing. The suspect intended to kill them both because the boyfriend is in a critical state in hospital. The eight-year-old daughter is so frustrated. No one is in a position to tell her what happened to her mum. We seek any assistance in order to give them a dignified funeral,” said Malefe. Provincial chairman of Disabled People South Africa Teboho Monkwe said they are saddened by the senseless murder of Matshidiso. “As Disabled People South Africa we call on the police to ensure this man is hunted down and locked away for life. He is a danger to all. We will be with the family until after the funeral,” said Monkwe. “We need to stand together to fight this violence against vulnerable people in our communities,” said Monkwe. Police spokesman Captain Phumelelo Dlamini confirmed the suspect has been arrested and is expected to appear in the Tseki Magistrates Court soon.