HEALTH Minister Dr Joe Phaahla has called for calm and vigilance as government detects cases of measles in Gauteng during routine surveillance activities aimed at detecting, investigating and responding to every suspected case of this vaccine-preventable disease. Phaahla said over the last two weeks of May 2022, four suspected cases of measles from persons residing in Gauteng have been notified and ultimately confirmed through laboratory testing conducted by the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD). He stated that three of these cases are individuals residing in Tshwane, which means that the City of Tshwane is experiencing an outbreak of measles. “The fourth case is an individual residing in the West Rand of Gauteng. All four individuals are presently isolated and are recovering,” he said. Phaahla said the health authorities in the affected districts and communities are working together to identify and conduct vaccination of contacts. Minister Phaahla urged parents and caregivers to ensure that their children are up-to-date with their vaccinations in line with the vaccination schedule against measles and other childhood diseases. “Measles is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus which mainly spreads through infectious airborne respiratory droplets from infected persons when coughing or sneezing,” he said. He, however, said the measles vaccine has been in use for almost 60 years and is the best protection against this life-threatening childhood disease. “It is safe, effective and available free of charge at public health facilities,” he said. ALSO READ | WATCH: Paul
Smith reinvents ICONIC MINI! According to the ministry of health, measles symptoms include fever, red eyes, runny nose and cough which typically appear before the onset of the disease’s characteristic maculopapular rash. Phaahla said children, especially those under one year of age, may develop complicated measles which may include pneumonia, eye complications and, rarely, encephalitis. The department said unvaccinated young children are at highest risk of measles and its complications, including irreversible brain damage and/or death, especially in immunocompromised or malnourished children. Phaahla said departmental officials are working closely with the Gauteng Department of Health, the City of Tshwane, the NICD and other stakeholders including the World Health Organisation and Unicef to investigate and respond to the outbreak. He said the response includes increased surveillance and vigilance throughout the province. According to the South African Expanded Programme on Immunisation (EPI), children are given the measles vaccine at six months and 12 months of age and these vaccines are available free of charge at public health facilities. EPI explains that measles is a notifiable medical condition in terms of the National Health Act, and clinicians have been alerted on the symptoms to look out for.