ETHEKWINI Municipality’s new ritual slaughtering permit by-law has received heavy criticism. The by-law has imposed a slaughtering permit for traditional ceremonies. After the by-law was heavily criticised, the municipality decided to take down the poster explaining it. The African National Congress (ANC) Youth League in the eThekwini region was the first to slam the by-law. Regional secretary Thulisa Ndlela said the youth league rejected the culturally insensitive move as it requires people to seek permission to practise their constitutionally protected right to culture. “We will engage the leadership of the ANC in the region to instruct the caucus of the ANC in the council for this decision not to be approved and if approved to be reviewed with the intention of reversing. African people cannot be made to seek permission in the same way that they used to under the apartheid regime,” said Ndlela. Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) eThekwini chairman Mdu Nkosi said this is not a by-law that can work in eThekwini as there are areas that are still under traditional leadership. “As the IFP, we won’t support this law,” said Nkosi. Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa) national treasurer and Ubumbano Lwesinduna chairman Charles Malinga said this by-law aimed to continue to show the middle finger to traditional leadership. “They want to strip amakhosi of their governing power so that people will see them as useless. The ruling government is working with everything in their power to continue to oppress our culture so that they force the Western culture that aims to make us forget our identity,” said Malinga. The municipality said it recognises and respects communities’ traditional, cultural and religious beliefs and does not prohibit activities aligned to such beliefs. “However, the municipality is required to give effect to national legislation and regulations to ensure the humane slaughter of animals, to safeguard public health and the health of those who consume the meat, to prevent health-related issues and to ensure that such practices are done in the interests of harmony and respect for other people’s rights within communities. “The Red Meat Regulations, 2004, Section 128(2)(a) which refers to religious purposes of the Muslim faith, and 129(1)(a) which refers to indigenous religious or cultural purpose, states that a person must ‘obtain written permission from the local authority of the area where such a slaughtering will take place,’” read part of the statement.