YOUNG people took to the streets of Tshwane on Thursday, 16 June in commemoration of the 46th anniversary of the 1976 uprising. They were part of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, which hosted a Youth Day parade for justice and change. Their march started at Loftus Versfeld Stadium and ended at the Union Buildings. Deputy convener of the parade, Ahmed Kathrada Foundation’s Zaki Mamdoo said they were commemorating the uprising and showing respect to those who lost their lives because of the brutality of the apartheid regime. “Despite the sacrifices made by those who came before us, our world remains unfree, as young people have no choice because of the crisis confronting us.”  He said they wanted government to truly listen to them and address issues of unemployment, gender-based violence, corruption, crime and climate change. Mamdoo said the message was clear that young people wanted to have a future in this country and the world and were calling for a higher standard of life and greater enjoyment of freedom. “In order to have a future, they want government to be mindful of critical issues affecting them today, such as joblessness,” he said.  Marcher Thembeka Mathebula (15) said: “This is an important day, especially to all young people. We are thankful for the bravery of the June 16 youth who fought for our rights.” Thato Gaffane (23) from Lawyers for Human Rights said: “The reason we are here is for intervention against Operation Dudula and to champion equal access to higher education.” Zinhle Msomi (29) from Joburg Institute of Social services said they stood for the rights of children from birth until 12 years old. “We are celebrating the power and struggles of youth in the past and empowering the youth we have now,” she said.  Zamajozi Sithole (29) from Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund said: “We believe in empowering young people and creating capabilities. We want to raise our voices and government must hear us and build this country with them.” She said the youth of 1976 had power and showed it, which was important to remember. “We can rise up and make a change. Government must not forget that.”