FORMER Marumo Gallants coach Sebastien Migne believes Bahlabane Ba Ntwa have made the right choice by appointing his compatriot Romain Folz as their new head coach. But Migne, who was sacked by Gallants last season after being in charge of only five DStv Premiership matches, told SunSport that the 31-year-old Frenchman will need a lot of support to do well. Gallants announced last week that Folz will succeed Dan Malesela, who the Limpopo-based club parted ways with two weeks ago. Malesela helped Gallants avoid relegation and reach the Nedbank Cup final where they lost to Mamelodi Sundowns. Last season, Folz was at the helm of Botswana side Township Rollers and guided them runners up spot in the league. “I know Folz very well as a video analyst,” said Migne, who is now working as an assistant coach with the Cameroon national team. “He (Folz) is a good guy and I am sure he will do well at Gallants. He is a young coach with a lot of ambition. He had done well at Rollers and if given good support and treated well, he will bring good times to Gallants. The other good thing about Folz is that he speaks English well. I had the worst experience of my coaching career at Gallants and I hope they will be good to Folz.” Migne also revealed that he is enjoying his football coaching career with The Indomitable Lions. “I am happy at Cameroon as we have qualified for the World Cup in Qatar,” he said. “Soon, we will be starting to prepare for the World Cup and I can’t wait to add the biggest football tournament to my CV. But I hope one day I will come back and work in South Africa again. Despite the bad treatment at Gallants, I enjoyed my stay in South Africa and the people were very good to me.” On his appointment at Gallants, Folz said in a statement released by the club: “I am honoured to join Marumo Gallants and a league such as the PSL. My first words are for our fans. I can tell them that all the efforts and work we will put in every day is for them. We want them to be proud and I will dedicate all my time and energy to reach that goal.” Folz, who is in France, is expected in Mzansi next week.