PITSO Mosimane is NO LONGER the Al Ahly coach! The Egyptian giants parted ways with Mosimane yesterday following their BIG Caf Champions League loss to Wydad Casablanca in Morocco last week. THE SIGNS WERE THERE SINCE THEY WENT DOWN 2-0 TO THE MOROCCAN CLUB AND CLUB OWNER, MAHMOUD EL KHATIB, SUMMONED MOSIMANE TO AN EMERGENCY VIRTUAL BOARD MEETING. This is where both parties opted to part ways, but there was still a glimmer of hope that Mosimane could stay on at the club after a new set of mandates were placed on his shoulders. Mosimane, Mzansi’s most successful coach, is available for PSL clubs still searching for a coach such as Orlando Pirates, SuperSport United and Marumo Gallants. But surely he won’t come cheap! In a statement, the Red Devils explained what really happened for the break-up in the relationship. “During the meeting, they (club board) all decided that he (Mosimane) should continue his mission with Al Ahly as a result of the achievements he managed to accomplish during the previous period,” said the club in a statement. “However, during the meeting that was previously held, Mosimane requested to leave and that he is satisfied with the achievements he managed to accomplish with the club. “Later on, Mosimane’s decision was discussed and it was decided his request to part ways with the club be approved, and thank him for the achievements he accomplished with the club.” There has been rumours going around that Al Ahly’s rivals, Zamalek SC, were after the services of the 57-year-old coach from Kagiso, Mogale City. Zamalek are top of the standings, while Al Ahly are placed third on the log, with seven points gap. Mosimane left South Africa in a huff in 2020 after having a fall-out with Mamelodi Sundowns to join Al Ahly where he was made an offer he couldn’t resist. SunSport understands that Mosimane has not had a jolly ride in Cairo, the club’s headquarters, as he was apparently disliked by locals who always called for his sacking immediately after losing a match. Even Mosimane admitted himself that “it’s hard coaching Al Ahly”. Mosimane was gunning for his fourth Champions League title, and the 11th for Al Ahly, which could have triggered a wrong nerve when they failed to achieve their goal. It goes without saying that Mosimane lieutenants – fitness trainer Kabelo Rangoaga and performance analyst Musi Matlaba – who left Sundowns with him to join Al Ahly must follow him. New fitness coach is Mohamed Elnagar and Omar Roshdy comes in as analyst. Cavin Johnson, who was Mosimane’s assistant, has long left the club. Whether new coach Samy Komsan will work with Percy Tau, for now, the future of Mosimane’s recruit remains unknown.