A FAMILY member has confirmed Moshe Lesutu, the owner of popular entertainment spot Lesutu Pub and Grill in Ga-Rankuwa zone 16, north of Tshwane, has been shot dead. “The Lesutu family would like to officially inform you that Moses ‘Moshe’ Lesutu has passed on. We will keep you posted regarding any developments,” read the statement. The family said they have lost not only a son but a brother and a father. “Can our clients please give the family space to mourn his death respectfully. The family will keep you posted regarding the funeral arrangements,” concluded the statement. Moshe reportedly died on his way to the hospital on Saturday, 18 June. He was allegedly with a friend, who was also shot on the leg and is in hospital. Information around the murder is still sketchy. His friend told Daily Sun he can’t believe that he has lost a former classmate, a friend, a person who introduced him to Tshwane. “He made me feel welcome even though I didn’t have any relatives around the area. He is the person who made me fall in love with Pretoria. It’s so hard to believe gore Mgege, as we used to call each other, is gone. It’s a sad and painful thing to digest,” he said. His death has sent shock waves through his kasi, as he was known to be a man who gave back to the community. Ward 30 Councillor Violet Phalwane said she is saddened by his death. She said Moshe was very instrumental to the community. “When we requested help he would always be willing to help. We have residents who are struggling financially but Moshe would always reach out to them,” she said. “I’m saddened by his death. He was brutally taken away from us,” she said. Moshe’s eatery attracted all types of people, from celebrities to businessmen and also became a popular spot for year-end functions and other events. On Facebook, Mankeke Madumo said: “May the Lord Almighty comfort the family and mshrip (may his soul rest in peace).” David Mpara Melato said: “Condolences to the Lesutu family and may his soul rest in eternal peace.” Johana Huma said “Rest well our brother, only God have authority in our lives.” Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said the police have launched a manhunt for the suspects after a man was shot and killed while the other was injured in Ga-Rankuwa on Saturday, 18 June at approximately 9.30pm. He said the preliminary investigation suggests that Lesutu was inside a vehicle with another man when they were shot several times by unknown suspects. “They were taken to the hospital where one was certified dead and the other in critical condition. “The motive for the shooting is unknown at this stage. Police have opened a case of murder and attempted murder for investigation,” he said. Masondo said police are appealing to anyone who might have information that can help in the investigation or in arresting the suspects to please call the nearest police station or CrimeStop on 08600 10111.