MANY people often say: “Nothing in life lasts forever.” And as negative and morbid as it may sound, it’s the harsh truth of life. Take divorce as an example. When two people exchange vows and promise to love each other until the end of time, they don’t have a divorce in the back of their mind. But that sometimes happens. In recent times, divorce has become a sad norm, both globally and locally. ALSO READ: Which countries have the least amount of sex! According to statistics, South Africa’s divorce rate sits at 17,6%. While the rate is low by world standards, almost one in five marriages end up in divorce. And the most vulnerable time for a divorce is between five and nine years of marriage – unfortunately when there may be young children involved. One of many contributing factors to a divorce is work. According to Monster publication, type of jobs, especially toxic ones, can sometimes put strain on a marriage. Whether it has to do with how much money you make, your employment status or working too many hours, when these issues arise, they can lead to divorce. Data reveals that some professions with the highest divorce rates are in declining industries or those that offer low pay. And the jobs where people tend to have stronger marriages make sense, too. Look at actuaries, for example, a profession with the lowest divorce rate. Considering that actuaries make a living off minimising risks, there’s a strong chance they assessed the pros and cons of marriage beforehand. According to Monster, these are the top 10 occupations with the highest divorce rate: 1. Gaming managers – 52,9% 2. Bartenders – 52,7% 3. Flight attendants – 50,5% 4. Gaming service workers – 50,3% 5. Rolling machine setters, operators and tenders – 50,1% 6. Switchboard operators – 49,7% 7. Extruding and drawing machine setters, operators and tenders – 49,6% 8. Telemarketers – 49,2% 9. Textile knitting and weaving machine operators and tenders – 48,9% 10. Extruding, forming, pressing and compacting machine setters, operators and tenders – 48,8%