THE multi-million rand Nkuna Kraal Shopping Centre has officially been opened. The shopping centre, which was built by Masingita Group of Companies, has opened at Nkuzana Village, outside Makhado in Limpopo, on Tuesday, 31 May. The centre is the first phase of the Nkuna City Smart Town, which is being developed in partnership with the provincial government. Masingita Group of Companies chairman, Mike Nkuna, said he’s happy to bring shops closer to his people. He said it’s good for the government to realise there are people like him who need to be supported. “It should not only be me. Business people should be supported if we want to rebuild our economy,” he said. Nkuna said the design of the centre resembles the head of a cow as he used to look after his father’s cattle growing up. ALSO READ: Sangoma burnt to death in her indumba! “He gave me four cows when he died and I vowed to keep them forever, but unfortunately they were stolen. “I then decided to bring them back in the form of assets, hence the design. It resembles the asset my father gave me. That is why it is called the kraal,” said Nkuna. The centre houses some of the big supermarkets, retail shops and banks. Precious Matale (40) said: “The centre is closer to us. Some of usWe no longer have to board public transport in order to go shopping.” Chief Nthumeni Masia said: “It is a risk to work and to bring businesses to rural villages but Nkuna has done it. I hope all business people will start trusting our rural villages. “We need to bring businesses and jobs closer to the people.” so they no longer have to travel to other areas for job opportunities.” Representing Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha, Economic Development MEC Thabo Mokone said they have accepted the responsibility to facilitate an enabling environment for black businesses to thrive. “We are greatly inspired by the tireless efforts and hard work of men like Nkuna. His work over the years has been a great source of inspiration for emerging business people,” said Mokone.