PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa has labelled the criminal charge opened against him as a political tool designed to assassinate his character. Addressing the closing of the Limpopo Elective Conference yesterday, 5 June, he hinted that former correctional services commissioner, Arthur Fraser, who opened the charge against him was being used as a political pawn by the rival faction to fight him. Fraser is a known former president Jacob Zuma ally and questions have been raised about the timing of the criminal charge as the party is gearing itself for the national conference in December. Ramaphosa said accusations were being levelled against him on the issue of money, with different amounts being quoted by various media reports. The amounts range from over a billion rands to a few million rands. He reminded the congress that he was a commercial farmer and the money stolen was from proceeds from game sales. He said as the matter was still being investigated, he would not go into details. “I have never stolen money from anywhere, be it from our taxpayers or be it from anyone. “My integrity as a leader will never allow me to do so.” “And some of these things are clearly because they have their own political agenda. We are all aware of that. But it will not deter me from fighting corruption because I have never stolen taxpayers’ money. That I have never done,” he said. On the conference, Ramaphosa commended the province for hosting a peaceful and jovial conference. He lauded the delegates for not only focusing on the election of leaders but also on discussing policies. The outcome of the conference was seen as a major boost for Ramaphosa’s bid for a second term. This was despite the firestorm the president has been weathering in the past few days after revelations of robbery at his Phala Phala Farm in Limpopo. Both factions going into the conference were said to be behind Ramaphosa to serve a second. This was despite the fact that Premier Stan Mathabatha’s faction was dominated by those known to be aligned to the radical economic transformation (RET) faction. Others were quick to point out that this was a hollow victory for the president because the faction would not support him all the way to the national conference in December. Ramaphosa was warmly welcomed by the delegates as he arrived for the closing with the entire plenary session declaring their love for him through a song displaying the second-term sign. Mathabatha, in accepting his re-election, was quick to reach out to the defeated faction and promised that he would be meeting them to plan a way forward. Daily Sun understands that he met his former friend Dickson Masemola to ask him to persuade the Sekhukhune region to support his bid for the national chairmanship in the December national elections. Mathabatha’s attempts might prove difficult after only former secretary Soviet Lekganyane made it to the provincial executive committee at number 26. Lekganyane was not even present at the close of the conference. In allaying fears of reshuffling those who contested his faction, Mathabatha said the reshuffling would be based on the performance but with few of the MECs from the losing faction not making it in the additional list, this has made his life easier. Only members in the PEC were eligible for MECs position. It is said that in the meeting with Masemola and Lekganyane, Masemola is understood to have put his demands on the table in exchange, including a position in government but since he didn’t make to the PEC, this might complicate things. Mathabatha’s faction won with an overwhelming margin. His deputy Florence Radzilani retained her position, so did Basikopo Makamu with debutants Rueben Madazhe pipping Lekganyane for secretary position and Nakedi Sibanda-Kekana occupying the treasurer position. Mathabatha played down his bid for national top six position, saying his focus was to serve and unite the province. After serving two terms as premier, he can no longer be appointed as premier and has two years remaining if he doesn’t make it to the national list in December. On top of trying to appease the losing faction, Mathabatha also has the task of picking his soccer from his camp with the obvious choice his deputy Radzilani tipped for the position but there were murmurs at the conference that top five debutant Sibanda-Kekana is also being lined-up for the post, a move that would fracture the Mathabatha faction if this is realized. If Radzilani is appointed premier, she would be the first female and official who doesn’t speak Pedi to occupy the office since the dawn of democracy, an issue that has been simmering in the province that is home to three tribes, namely Venda, Pedi and Tsonga-speaking tribes. The peaceful Limpopo conference has been hailed as a benchmark after after two chaotic conferences of Eastern Cape and Mpumalanga. Not only has the province achieved a seamless conference, it has also become the first province so far to have two females in the top five with the majority of PEC members being women. According to Limpopo convenor, Agriculture Minister Thoko Didiza, it took only 20 minutes to adopt credentials, a contentious issue that tends to derail conferences.