THE Nombika High School grade 10 sangoma pupil, who earlier this year had a problem with her school regarding ibhayi, has committed suicide. Mbalenhle Ngobese (15) was previously denied access to the school because of ibhayi she had to wear over her school uniform. She ended her life by hanging herself on a tree near her home in Ndwedwe, north of Durban, on Tuesday, 28 June. But her family is still puzzled as to what could have led her to take her own life. Her mother, Tholiwe Ngobese (46), told Daily Sun said she is left in the dark because Mbalenhle didn’t leave a note behind to explain her action. “It is even hard to accept that my baby girl is no more. It is like someone is still going to pinch me to wake me up from this bad dream,” said Tholiwe. She said she has lost her shining star who had a very bright future ahead of her. “Mbalenhle was a down to earth to child. On the day she took her life, as usual, they had an argument with her brother. Her brother was warning her about boys because he heard rumours that she had a boyfriend but she stormed out of the house,” said the mother. ALSO READ: | BONGIWE'S SCHOOL FACES PROTEST! Tholiwe said the next thing they heard the neighbours calling them out. She said she believed what led Mbalenhle to take her own life had nothing to do with the argument she had with her brother but everything to do with the trauma she had endured at school. “She was denied access to school because of iziphandla (wristband made out of animal skin) and ibhayi. Ever since that issue started, my child was always depressed. She once told me that other pupils were discriminating her because of her calling. She missed the whole term and was only allowed to write exams. Her life was not nice anymore and she was trying to hide it from us but we never thought she would take her life over that,” she said. Tholiwe believes that if her calling matter was handled differently, Mbalenhle would still be alive. The KZN Department of Education said it was saddened by the news of the passing away of a pupil, who was reported to have taken her life. Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu confirmed that the deceased was recently in the news because of the problem she had with the school regarding her traditional rituals. The department intervened in the matter and the pupil was back at school. Mshengu said according to the Circuit Management Centre, the pupil came to school to write her June exams.