THE 2021-22 DStv Premiership season has come and gone with the best performers acknowledged and rewarded at the BIG PSL Awards. The likes of Mamelodi Sundowns duo – Peter Shalulile and Andile Jali – were the big winners at this season’s PSL Awards. But it wasn’t the best season for other big name stars who couldn’t live up to the standards they previously set. It’s safe to say that it’s almost impossible for any footballer to perform to their best possible abilities every single season. And there are a few who, for one reason or another, couldn’t deliver what was expected this past season. SunSport looks at five underperforming stars in the recently concluded PSL season. BRADLEY GROBLER The SuperSport United striker had a season to forget as he struggled with injuries which kept him out for the better part of the season. Grobler, who won the DStv Premiership Golden Boot the previous season, could hardly get on the pitch this past season as he battled with fitness. He had little choice but to relinquish the Golden Boot to Shalulile, who he had beaten by one goal the season before. The persistent minor injury that hampered Grobler’s performances meant that he could only make 10 appearances in all competitions, scoring only once. GABADINHO MHANGO The Malawian is another former Golden Boot winner who struggled to find the back of the net this past season. Mhango, like Grobler, hardly featured for Orlando Pirates but his absence wasn’t injury related. The 2019-20 Golden Boot winner with 16 goals had issues with discipline which kept him out of the Bucs team. He made only make 10 appearances in all competitions, registering a solitary assist. Mhango has since left the Buccaneers and is set to join AmaZulu in a swap deal that will see defender Tapelo Xoki go the opposite direction. THEMBINKOSI LORCH The Pirates forward is another who didn’t perform to his fullest potential this past season. Lorch, who was named Player of the Season and Players’ Player of the Season in 2019, was a shadow of himself in the past season. He struggled with injuries and on his return to full fitness, couldn’t quite hit his straps as he battled to find form. His form only began to pick up in the latter stages of the campaign where he managed to sneak into the most recent Bafana Bafana squad. NJABULO NGCOBO Ngcobo joined Kaizer Chiefs from Swallows FC at the beginning of the season after he was voted Defender of the Season the previous campaign. And as a result, much was expected from the 28-year-old centre back. However, Ngcobo struggled to cement his place in the team with then Amakhosi coach Stuart Baxter reluctant to play him in his favoured centre back position. But under new coach Arthur Zwane, Ngcobo showed glimpses of the form that made him one of the best defenders in the country. RUZAIGH GAMILDIEN A failed move to Soweto giants Chiefs was one of the factors that could have contributed to the Swallows striker’s dip in form. Gamildien fell narrowly short in the race for the Golden Boot last season as he finished with 11 goals from 24 league matches. This past season, the 33-year-old was nowhere near his best goal scoring form as he only managed five goals from 23 matches.