UNCONFIRMED reports are pointing at chemical poisoning as the cause of multiple deaths at Enyobeni Tavern. According to News24, carbon monoxide poisoning caused the death of 21 teenagers at Enyobeni Tavern in East London. The Eastern Cape Department of Health has confirmed that the post mortems have been completed and are expected to be released later this week. The site reported on Wednesday that it had been reliably informed by sources close to the investigation that it was chemical poisoning that took the lives of the teenagers. All those who died were under 18 and the youngest was 13. The theory of a stampede as the cause of death has been ruled out by pathologist at the Woodbrook mortuary. Samples were taken to the toxicology laboratory in Cape Town for further investigation. “Police crime scene experts found a petrol generator inside the venue where hundreds of young revellers partied from Saturday night into the early hours of Sunday morning,” News24 reported. “It’s unclear whether the petrol generator was running and how long it was on for. However, witnesses and survivors who were at the tavern during the incident confirmed there was no power at the venue although there was no load shedding schedule.” Another source said analysts at UCT’s forensic pathology laboratory are finalising their work after having gone through the victims’ stomach contents. Eastern Cape Health spokeswoman Yonela Dekeda said: “We performed post-mortems but the forensic report is not ready yet as samples have been submitted to the forensic lab in Cape Town for analysis.” She said the report will be finalised and handed to the police. “Those who were treated in hospital and at Mpilweni Gompo Health Centre were treated for backache, tight chests, vomiting and headaches. Others did not present symptoms,” she said. Premier Oscar Mabuyane said the report will be shared with the affected families as soon as investigations have been concluded. A mass funeral service was held on Wednesday and AVBOB pledged support for each family’s funeral costs.