THE four teens, who were found guilty of murdering Thoriso Themane, have each been sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment. The four were sentenced by Deputy Judge President Matsaro Violet Semenya in the Polokwane High Court in Limpopo on Wednesday, 29 June. Within the 10-year sentence, Semenya ordered they be taken to juvenile until they turn 21 where they will be taken to prison to finish their sentences. She said Michael must be sent to Mavambe Secure Care Centre until he turns 21 and will then be taken to prison. She also ordered that Vincent be taken to the Mavambe Secure Care Centre for two years until he turns 21 and then be sent to prison. “Tshiamo must also spend two years at the Polokwane Secure Care Centre for two years until he turns 21 where he will then be sent to prison. Lesetja must also be taken to the Polokwane Secure Care Centre for a year and sent to prison to finish his sentence,” said Semenya. Two others who were teens at the time, and found guilty of common assault after admitting to slapping Themane and kicking him out of their car, were sentenced. Thabang Mohubedi (20) and Adaho Mudau (20) were found guilty of common assault and slapped with a R20 000 fine or five years’ imprisonment. The sentences were in accordance with the Child Justice Act as the offence was committed when they were under 18. The adults, Chuene Maleka and Alfred Mothapo, who were found guilty of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, were sentenced to three years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years. Semenya said Themane’s death proved that South Africa is a violent society and we resolve issues through fights. “Most people act before they think. This should be stopped. The sentence should send a strong message to other people out there,” she said. Themane’s brother Karaboo said they are disappointed with the sentence. “This is a lousy sentence. It proves the justice system doesn’t care about my brother’s life. It spits on our faces, but we leave everything to God,” he said. Themane was attacked by a group of teenagers in Fauna Park, Polokwane, on 23 February 2019. He succumbed to his injuries the following day in hospital.