THE ANC Gauteng elective conference finally got underway on Friday, June 24 afternoon after a marathon national executive meeting rejected a proposal that the Ekurhuleni regional conference should have a rerun was defeated. The NEC in an unprecedented move on the eve of the conference called a specialist to discuss the issue of Ekurhuleni and quarantined 19 votes that have now derailed the confirmation of the winner of the chairmanship of the region. After the votes were quarantined, a panel was established to tackle the matter led by senior party member Jeff Radebe who in turn is said to have gone beyond the scope and investigated other branches and revealed the number of disputes extended to 27 branches. Radebe is said to have tabled the report and suggested that the region should have a rerun, sparking a fierce debate in the meeting which is said to have gone on till 4 am on Friday morning. READ: SECURITY beefed up at ANC GP conference The meeting in turn, delayed the start of the conference but outgoing provincial secretary Jacob Khawe said the delegates from the disputed branches would be allowed to participate and that their votes would also be quarantined. Khawe reported in an impromptu press conference that the incoming provincial executive committee to be elected in the conference would have to attend to the problem as a matter of urgency because currently, the region didn't have a legitimate leadership and the party could not prepare for the national elections without a leadership. "How long will you take? I'm sure the incoming PEC will resolve with the NEC. I'm supposed to write a report to the SG you said that the first meeting of the PC it must receive a report for this PEC and hand over-report. They will take the handover report and the process of engaging all these structures that finally come to a determination and we want this to be done urgently because there is no leadership," he said. Khawe also said there were issues raised by the Sedibeng region pertaining to how some branches were constituted and the complaint was largely the political process leading to the regional conference. He confirmed receiving letters from disgruntled members and they have been engaging with them and they will now for the group to go to court and deal with the matter there. The top leadership battle for chairmanship will be a rematch between the current deputy chairperson and basic education MEC Panyaza Lesufi and cooperative governance MEC Lebohang Maile. The two went head to head for the deputy chair at the last conference where Lesufi emerged victorious.