WHEN you walk into this passage between Mandela Section and Etwatwa East in Ekurhuleni, you are lucky to make it out alive. This is because thugs block the two ends, rob residents and even kill them. They take cellphones, cash, clothes and then leave their victims scarred or dead. Helpless residents are now terrified of the passage. They said what makes matters worse is that the street lights in the area are not working, making it easy for thugs to prey on them. “This area has passages and to get to the next street, you have to use a passage,” said community leader, John Nkabinde (60). Nkabinde said it is even hard for the police to monitor the passage. “Police tell us that there’s one van operating at night and it is difficult for them to reach all areas,” he said. On Saturday, 18 June, an unknown man was killed by heartless thugs. Last week, Songezo Madolwane (37) was robbed and stabbed by thugs who also took his cellphone and cash. He’s still in hospital. His wife, Smangele (37), said her husband was stabbed in the passage in the morning while he was on his way to work. “He leaves home at 4.30am because he needs to report early at work. “I pray that my husband comes out of the hospital soon. He’s the only breadwinner,” she said. Residents said they think of getting the Basotho Russian gang to guard the passage. Resident Simon Nkomone (50) said: “We are tired of these thugs and we know the gang will not play with them. “These thugs need people who are as ruthless as them. We can’t be living in fear in our neighbourhood. That is not acceptable.” Sergeant Khensani Mathebula said cases of murder and attempted murder were opened at Etwatwa Police Station. WHEN you walk into this passage between Mandela Section and Etwatwa East in Ekurhuleni, you are lucky to make it out alive. This is because thugs block the two ends, rob residents and even kill them. They take cellphones, cash, strip victims of their clothes and then leave them scarred or dead. Helpless residents are now terrified of the passage. They said what makes matters worse is that the street and mast lights in the area are not working, making it easy for thugs to prey on them. “This area has passages and to get to the next street, you have to use a passage,” said community leader, John Nkabinde. Nkabinde (60) said it is even hard for the police to monitor the passage. “Police tell us there’s one van operating at night and it is difficult for them to reach all areas,” he said. On Saturday, 18 June, an unknown man was killed by heartless thugs. Last week, Songezo Madolwane (37) was robbed and stabbed by thugs who also took his cellphone and cash. He’s still in hospital. His wife, Smangele (37) said her husband was stabbed in the passage in the morning on his way to work. “He leaves home at 4:30am because he should report early at work. I pray my husband comes out of hospital. “He’s the only breadwinner, I’m not working,” she said. Residents said they think of getting Basotho Russian gang to guard the passage. Resident, Simon Nkomone (50), said: “We are tired of these thugs and we know the gang will not play with them. “These thugs need people who are as ruthless as them. We can’t be living in fear in our neighbourhood. That is not acceptable.” Police comment needed.