DESPITE being on the step-aside rule and ineligible to contest any position, former Limpopo treasurer Danny Msiza was nominated for the position of provincial secretary. He was not present at the conference, but he was announced to have made the threshold to contest outgoing provincial secretary Soviet Lekganyane. Msiza, who has been charged in connection with the VBS saga, had voluntarily stepped aside to honour the party’s rule, that the national executive committee had recently amended to bar anyone criminally charged to contest for positions in conferences. But this did not stop Limpopo branches from nominating him – a clear indication of the power and influence he held in the third biggest province in terms of delegates. He had sent a letter, that presumably would have indicated that he would decline nomination. READ: Mashatile: ANC must renew itself! However, treasurer general Paul Mashatile was quick to take to the podium as the electoral officer before NEC member Nomvula Mokonyane could read it. This after she had been seen walking to hand it over to him and whispering in his ear. “Comrade Msiza is not in conference because of step aside, so he will not be available for election,” Mashatile told delegates. With Lekganyane having already made the threshold for nomination for the position, the nomination for a candidate to nominate him was taken to the floor. And as predicted, Reuben Madadzhe got the nod and reached the threshold with an overwhelming vote and cheer. The nomination started around 3am early Saturday morning after a few hours of deliberations over the credentials that went on fairly smoothly by recent ANC conferences standards. The Mathabatha faction received the loudest cheer compared to the one led by his former ally, public works MEC Dickson Masemola, who also accepted nomination for chairmanship after reaching the threshold at branch nominations. ALSO READ: SOVIET: 1 year of work and no pay from ANC This set the battle for the chairmanship between the two former friends at the ballot. Outgoing deputy chairwoman Florence Radzilani was not nominated to retain her position on the Mathabatha slate against Pule Shayi from the Masemola one. Remaining positions were Basikopo Makamu for deputy secretary against Livhuwani Ligalaga, and Nakedi Kekana for treasurer against Faith Chauke. Provincial spokesman Donald Selamolela also made the threshold for the position, but declined nomination. That brought the nomination to a close, in a conference that has so far proceeded rather peacefully and on schedule, to go to commissions to discuss policies. Voting started at 5am and results were expected later this afternoon.