FOLLOWING a stabbing incident at a kasi school, parents and local forum members have decided to guard the premises. This after the deputy principal of Mzuvele Secondary School at J section in KwaMashu, north of Durban, was stabbed and injured on Friday, allegedly by a pupil. According to a source, the pupil was accused of selling cigarettes and found smoking along with others. He said the deputy went to reprimand the pupils but a heated argument started with him and one of the pupils. This resulted in the pupil stabbing him on the shoulder. “The deputy sustained a minor injury and went to hospital. The matter was reported to the police,” he said. After this incident, some parents and Corner to Corner Forum members decided to embark on a safety plan, where they keep guard at local schools. They started guarding Mzuvele on Monday, 13 June. Policing Forum secretary Mbuso Makhathini said: “We want a crime-free environment and will make sure it stays that way. Some parents have also joined us. The problem is that pupils who sell drugs in schools are selling for other people. We have since found out that they are from areas such as Ntuzuma and Lindelani. Police will also do searches at the school as we’ve been informed that some pupils carry weapons.” A parent said: “If teachers can be stabbed like this, it means our children are not safe. Drugs are a serious problem in schools and something needs to be done urgently.” Police spokeswoman Constable Thenjiwe Ngcobo said it was alleged by the complainant that he was performing his duties when he was stabbed on the shoulder by a known suspect. “He sustained a stab wound on the left shoulder and was taken to hospital. A case of assault with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm was opened at KwaMashu Police Station,” said Ngcobo. KZN education spokeswoman Sihle Mlotshwa said: “We are aware of this matter and it is very unfortunate. School violence by pupils towards educators is a big problem. We ask the community and parents to work with us in ensuring that our children are raised with positive values. We can’t get rid of violence and criminality in schools if we don’t win this war at a community level.”