CIVIL societies in Mpumalanga are concerned about the increasing number of kidnappings in the province. This follows the recent kidnapping of a woman in Nkomazi. Matshidiso Ndlovu (28) was allegedly snatched by two men in her house on Sunday, 19 June. Ndlovu was with her gogo and siblings when the men broke the door, entered the house and forcibly took her. It is alleged that the suspects later demanded R20 000 for her to be released. Lorraine Khoza of the Lorraine Khoza Foundation said a reform in the justice system is needed to stop gender-based violence and femicide incidents from escalating. She said if law enforcement was playing its role fairly, there wouldn’t be a rise in kidnapping cases. Khoza said the cases continue to go up because people feel as if the justice system is weak. At least four women have been abducted in the space of two months in the province. Two of them were found dead, one was found alive and police are still searching for one. Hillary Gardee was kidnapped in April and her lifeless body was found dumped at a timber plantation outside Mbombela in May. Three people have been arrested for her murder and they are expected back in court in July. Bontle Mashiyane (6) was also reportedly kidnapped in April and her mutilated body was found dumped not far from her home in May. Five people, including her two neighbours and an inyanga, were arrested and charged with kidnapping and murder. All suspects are expected to appear in court on Friday, 24 June. Meanwhile Nondumiso Zenani (24), who was kidnapped earlier this month, was found alive. Zenani was kidnapped while hitchhiking. The suspects demanded a R10 000 ransom for her to be released. No one has been arrested as yet. Lindiwe Ntuli-Tloubatla, who is a catalyst and gender activist, said the kidnappings that are taking place are gender-related and targeting women and children. She said they are not targeting men because of their biological makeup and masculinity. She said people are willing to do anything for self enrichment and don’t value life. “They don’t care that they disrupt families in the process,” said Ntuli-Tloubatla. Police spokesman Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said the police are working hard to deal with such crimes. He said so far the police are doing well in terms of cases of reported missing persons. “The majority of people that are reported missing are found, only a few are not found. The majority of the perpetrators are also arrested,” he said. He said that the motives behind these crimes varies as some are money related, and some are related to jealousy within love triangles.