THE current transfer window has been the busiest and arguably the most exciting for Premier Soccer League (PSL) clubs in recent history. There’s been plenty of movement with clubs eager to improve their squads as they look to challenge dominant DStv Premiership champions Mamelodi Sundowns next season. PSL clubs have been ruthless in their attempt to transform their squads, axing several players. This has meant that a lot of work has gone into finding better replacements who will take these teams to the next level. SunSport looks at five of the best signings made by PSL clubs so far, with plenty of business yet to be done ahead of the start of the new campaign. ASHLEY DU PREEZ Du Preez is one of the signings who have excited Kaizer Chiefs supporters and filled them with plenty of optimism ahead of the new campaign. The quick forward joined Amakhosi from Stellenbosch FC, alongside teammate Zitha Kwinika, on a three-year deal. Du Preez is hot property in South African football right now and has all the makings to become a Chiefs legend. His signing has been seen as a statement of intent by Chiefs as they look to end a seven-year trophy drought. GABADINHO MHANGO Former Orlando Pirates forward Mhango has joined AmaZulu in a swap deal that saw Usuthu defender Tapelo Xoki go the opposite way. Mhango, a former PSL Golden Boot winner, is one of the marquee signings for Usuthu who continue to look to build a team that will challenge for silverware. The Malawian might have endured a torrid time at Bucs last season, but remains a lethal weapon to possess as he displayed at the Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) in Cameroon in his national team colours. EVIDENCE MAKGOPA The Bafana Bafana striker joined Pirates from relegated Baroka where he could not help save the club’s Premiership status. The lanky forward is still regarded as one of the best young talents in Mzansi football. This despite his underwhelming season last term for Bakgaga. “Tower,” as he is affectionately known, has nine caps for Bafana Bafana and scored nine goals. Pirates will pin their hopes on the young marksman as their main source of goals next season in their quest to challenge for silverware. SIPHO MBULE As has been the case in recent years, Sundowns continue to attract the best players in the country. Highly regarded as one of the most talented players in Mzansi, Mbule will add quality to an already star-studded Downs team. The 25-year-old joined the Brazilians from city rivals SuperSport United in a bid to win trophies. YUSUF MAART Chiefs have been one of the busiest clubs on the market after they released numerous payers they deemed as surplus to requirements. And one of the signatures that they were desperate to obtain was that of the talented Bafana international Maart. The 26-year-old midfielder joined Chiefs on a three-year deal with a two-year option.