THEY are patients in a hospital but they are forced to sleep on the floor, benches or curled up in wheelchairs. Since being admitted, they have not been allocated beds and are treated on the floor. Videos and photos of conditions at the Witbank General Hospital in Mpumalanga have been circulating on social media. The patients claim that this has been going on for a long time. A patient told Daily Sun he had been sleeping on the floor for days. “My situation doesn’t look like it will get better anytime soon,” he said. Another patient said: she feared for her life. “I can’t describe the horrors I have seen in this hospital. One must be grateful to be discharged from here alive because oOnce you get here, you are signing your own death certificate.. The conditions get worse every day” He said it is tough sleeping on the cold, hard floor. “There is nowhere I can go to. I am unemployed. I rely on public health services,” he said. It’s alleged the hospital also had frequent water cuts. She said even though their families moved them out they won’t be able to take them to other hospitals as it costs too much. Community leader George Lukhele said: they were told that the hospital was being upgraded to a tertiary health institution. He said he doesn’t believe that there will be any improvements. “This hospital’s problems need national attention because the provincial people don’t care.” The health spokesman, Dumisani Malamule, said they are aware of the videos and pictures on social media. He said the Witbank Hospital was a tertiary hospital providing urgent specialist services. Referrals are from all the that are on circulating social media. He said none urgent patients sit on the benches. Gert Sibande and Nkangala district hospitals. He said none urgent patients will wait while Drs are attending to urgent patients. None sat on the benches while doctors attended to urgent patients. “None urgent patients are those who could be seen at local clinics and Impungwe Hospital but decide to bypass these facilities and come to Witbank Hospital,” he said. hospital. Following closure of our heritage building, medical patients are admitted at Impungwe hospital. While awaiting transport, the sit on wheelchairs and stretchers. The Department has started to educate the community of Emalahleni on what kind of a hospital Witbank is and they should go to their nearest clinics or Impungwe district hospital People who come to this hospital are unemployed and cannot access the two private hospitals we have in town. We are on our own,” he said. He said the hospital has been in the spotlight for the wrong reasons and the government always fails to address the challenges. 