ACTRESS, CONNIE CHIUME said the people she lived with didn’t even know she was thinking of committing suicide. “I had visions of myself being cut open with my intestines exposed,” she said, speaking at the funeral of Siyabonga Zubane. SHE SAID ONLY PRAYER SAVED HER FROM EVIL SPIRITS TELLING HER TO KILL HERSELF! The 70-year-old internationally acclaimed actress Connie Chiume revealed that the thoughts were due to an ordeal that happened in 1987 when she lost her daughter. Speaking last month at the funeral service of actor Siyabonga Zubane, who allegedly killed himself, Connie said: “This almost happened to me in 1987. My child died while I was feeding her. I became suicidal. So when things like this happen, I understand and I know how it happens,” she said. “At that time I wasn’t attending church, but I’d pray each and every time I heard those voices.” She said she removed all dangerous things from her sight. “It’s so easy to say we must speak up, but it’s difficult,” she said. Connie told Daily Sun she was only opening up now because her fellow colleagues were falling into depression and killing themselves. ALSO READ: Fraud charges pile up for Skeem Saam actor and radio DJ! “I also fell into depression and I was on the verge of killing myself, but I survived,” she said. “I’m standing up not only for myself but for my colleagues as well. I’m publicly sharing my own experiences so they can relate and reach out for help. I’m now healed and don’t want to go back there because it’s a difficult place to come out of.” Two weeks ago, Connie was one of the panellists at the Silapha Wellness Intervention programme in Freedom Park, Pretoria. “I didn’t know about the intervention programme until three weeks ago. I asked to be involved because it directly talks to my heart. “For this reason I encourage artists and anyone who is in the creative space to use this service because it is mainly for us as artists.” ALSO READ: Another setback for 'struggling' Zahara! She recently celebrated her 70th birthday with a huge party where she was surrounded by friends and family in Pretoria. Connie has appeared in world-class films such as Black Panther, Black Is King and Blessers. On television, she appeared on Zone 14, Rhythm City and Gomora. 