THE controversial show, Mnakwethu, is returning for a new season and viewers should hold onto their seats. The host and reality TV star, Musa Mseleku, told Daily Sun viewers will be impressed by the new season starting on Tuesday, 5 July, on Mzansi Magic. “This time around, we have women who are vocal about a number of things. They do not take any disrespect from anyone. I’m really excited this time around because“I know viewers will really enjoy watching these wives. I think we’ll have an interesting season and I’m sure people will be glued to their screens,” Musa said. Although he hosts the show and helps husbands seek permission from their first wives to marry second wives, Musa said he is irritated by how some men go about isithembu (polygamy). “I think as a presenter myselfI’m alsoannoyed and irritated by some of the men because they lie a lot. What will come out very strongly is that we, as a society, aren’t ready for isithembu yet. Subconsciously, we know it exists, but somehow we are in denial that it exists,” Musa said. ALSO READ : Top actors: Good and bad of looking alike! “But we will see the resilience and courage of some of the men who want to make this thing work. And when hell breaks loose, we’ll encounter some shocking stuff where men think they can take advantage of their women, but they will be shocked.” Musa said he has noticed that most men rush into polygamy because they are cheating and that’s not the right way to go about it. “Sometimes people cheat and say they want to take isithembu. When you follow up, you see there’s no substance behind wanting it. “Cheating is cheating, you must just apologise and not make any decisions just because you are in that situation,” he said. Asked about the previous season’s spin-off show, Mnakwethu Happily Ever After, which upset people as the men introduced new girlfriends and mistreated their wives, he said some of the stars featured on the show were not men enough. “We saw men having girlfriends and doing whatever they wanted. What we saw wasn’t right. When you have isithembu, you should show that you can provide for both of your wives. They should all have the same things.,” said On the show, you find men who don’t even find a room for themselves. They don’t understand how isthembu is done."