THE YOUNG women have suffered the most humiliating indignity of their lives – but it gets worse. They’ve lost the virginity they have fought to maintain all their lives. THE JOYFUL CELEBRATION OF THEIR UMEMULO IS NOW NO MORE THAN A SHATTERED DREAM! The bedridden and frail uncle of two siblings, who were among the eight women who were victims of the Krugersdorp rape horror, wished he could’ve helped his nieces when they found themselves in a horrible situation on Thursday, 28 July. The 42-year-old man, whose address can’t be printed to protect the identify of the victims, said if his situation was better, he would have gone to fight those zama zamas. He told Daily Sun his nieces, aged 19 and 21, told him that of the 20 zama zamas, only three didn’t have guns while the rest were armed to the teeth. “When the girls got home, they were in a state of shock,” he said. The two siblings were part of the film crew shooting a music video in Krugersdorp when they were ambushed by the zama zamas on Thursday. “These kids are models. They rely on such opportunities. Now they will be scared to ever participate in those events again,” said the uncle. The uncle said that not only were his nieces stripped of their dignity, but they also lost their virginity. “One girl had recently had her umemulo ceremony, celebrating turning 21 years old with her virginity intact,” he said. Police Minister Bheki Cele met six families at a cop shop, where they had a closed meeting. Following the tragedy, police raided West Village in Krugersdrop and arrested about 85 suspects in two days. “Many people have been arrested but we need the real perpetrators,” said the minister. “The biological evidence that has been collected by the police will help us link the real perpetrators to the crime.” He said they asked the laboratories to fast track the DNA evidence. The police’s divisional commissioner for detectives and forensic services, Lieutenant-General Khosi Senthumule, told reporters they’ve established a team within forensics to expedite the DNA. “These are foreign nationals and not all of them will be on our database,” said Senthumule. “We will probably have the results of the DNA by Friday, 5 July. We will be able to match it with evidence found at the crime scene.” In a separate incident a 25-year-old woman from Alexandra, Joburg, told Daily Sun that she was gang raped by four men who followed her from a party after she had rejected one of them. She said they threatened to kill her, should she tell anyone about the incident. On Friday night, she was at groove with two friends who left to go to another venue. She said while she was drinking her beer one of the four men approached her. “He told me he liked me and asked for my number. When I refused he didn’t take it well. He started getting violent, grabbing my arm to force me to go outside,” she said. Someone saw that altercation and intervened and the guy left her alone. “I didn’t feel comfortable or safe anymore,” she said. She requested a ride and while she was waiting, the men grabbed her, forced her into a taxi and drove off. “I noticed that one of the men was the one who asked for my number and I knew I was in trouble.” She said they drove for a few minutes, parked somewhere and then took turns in raping her. “They left me somewhere in Alex. I called my mum and we went to the police station.” She said the cops appeared to be judging her. “The weekend is over and we haven’t received a case number,” she said. National police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Netshiunda told Daily Sun the woman must visit the station or call the station and inquire. He said it could be a delay in the system or maybe the case was opened, but was yet to be registered.