HUNDREDS of mourners gathered at the local sports ground to pay their last respects to the slain traffic cop, Thabo Mashego (35). He was laid to rest in Xanthia, outside Dwarsloop near Bushbuckridge on Sunday, 31 July. Among the mourners were business people, politicians, police, traffic cops and residents. Thabo’s brother, Murray Mashego (67), said the cop was off duty when he was shot in Saselani Village on 23 July at about 9pm. His father-in-law Mandla Mnisi (47) said: Thabo was murdered in cold blood. “His killers must find no peace!” His grandfather Siprian Mathe (70) said: “We are not safe from trigger-happy criminals who attack us even in our houses.” Kurra Chiefs FC Director David Mkhabele said the thugs killed Thabo and now his kids, wife and parents have lost a loving father. Mpumalanga Chief Provincial Inspector Vusi Khosa said: “One of our soldiers who have served the country with honesty has fallen.” We have been hit hard.” Bushbuckridge municipal speaker Ruth Raganya said: “My child was gunned down in 1999.”“His He fought his way in life with distinctionkillers must be brought to book.” Pastor Philemon Shabangu said he who kills has blood on his hands. “He will one day be before God,” he said. Mpumalanga Provincial Head of The Directorate For Priority Crime Investigation Major-General Zodwa Mokoena said Thabo was driving with two other passengers when he was shot and forced to stop the car. “While the other people managed to escape without harm, the assailants dragged Thabo out of the car and drove off. “The survivors got help from other motorists and called emergency services, who certified Thabo dead,” she said. She said Nelspruit based Hawks found the VW Polo parked behind an RDP house. “The owner of the house Yekelina Ubisi (74), Remember Ngovene (35), Jabulane Ngovene (46) and Venus Advice Ngovene (33) were later arrested. They appeared in the Mkhuhlu Magistrates Court last Wednesday, and Ubisi was released on R500 bail. and the three brothers who are in the country illegally were remanded in custody. The case was postponed to 3 August. Further investigation revealed that Police believe Chris Maile can help them with the case. Anyone who knows his whereabouts should call Warrant Officer Vusi Mpangane on 082 469 1860. or Sergeant Vhusi Mpunzi on 071 481 3250. “He is requested to come forward,” she said.