Newly appointed Manchester United forwards coach, Benni McCarthy, has finally opened up since his appointment by one of the biggest clubs in world football. He said he will forever be grateful to Jose Mourinho for having taken him under his wing when he was miserable at Celta Vigo to join FC Porto when he endured his worst football career. McCarthy was added by United new manager Erik Ten Hag to his coaching staff over the weekend, completely bringing South Africans to huge ewe. “Mourinho was my life saver,” said McCarthy to Spanish football journalist Graham Hunter. “I was a person that was disliked by my teammates and coaching staff and all of the sudden the manager (Victor Fernandez) just took a complete tantrum towards you and he didn't speak to you or I felt like I didn’t exist. “He just pushed me to one side of the team and it was hard.” To even progress to the knockout stages with Porto in that season, no one saw it coming. They finished behind Real Madrid in the group stages, with the Spanish giants handing Porto the only loss in the group which also had Marseille and Partizan Belgrade. “I was left completely in the dark and completely alone,” added McCarthy. “Being away from home in another country where you thought you felt at home. My confidence was just knocked out of the window and I couldn’t understand. “But there was a peculiar gentleman (Mourinho) in the training sessions and after five days he came to speak to me and he couldn’t understand why I don’t play in this team. He said he would love me to come to Porto and I was like ‘Porto?’. It was the first time I saw Mourinho and then I said ‘okay, if you guys can get me away from Celta, I won’t say no’. That’s how the plan got in motion.” It was a gamble for McCarthy as FC Porto were not even finishing in the top four in Portugal when he joined the club in 2003. Mourinho had joined Porto in 2002, to start what was the memorable team, with the majority of those players helping Portugal reach the Euro final in 2004. At Porto, in McCarthy’s first season in the 2003-04, went on to win the Uefa Champions League, with McCarthy scoring twice in a 2-1 victory against United in the round of 16 at Old Trafford. Interestingly, Quinton Fortune had opened the scoring for United in the 14th minute. Outcast Cristiano Ronaldo came from the bench in the match.