EHLANZENI TVET College spokesman Mxolisi Nzimande has denied the allegations of striking students on the Acornhoek campus near Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga. This comes after students boycotted classes for almost a week, accusing the college management of maladministration and corruption, among other things. Students deputy secretary, Sbongiseni Shabangu, said they were no longer safe and girls were being raped on the premises. He said that there was no water and they were forced to relieve themselves outside the campus and buy water from their own pockets. He said that there were no lecturers and PPEs for engineering, tourism and hospitality students, and some of the students haven’t received any financial aid from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (Nsfas) since January. Sbongiseni also said the building’s roof and pavement was dilapidated and said when the college appointed a service provider they hired cronies, sidelining students with qualifications. “The college has appointed a new service provider for security for all campuses, which is expected to start soon. Students are prohibited from doing business with the college as stipulated in the policy. “Maintenance matters are being addressed according to the infrastructure plan,” said Sbongiseni. However, Nzimande said the head of hospitality and tourism has already planned tours to expose students to real-world conditions. “Independent engineers have assessed the building and concluded that it is not conducive for students accommodation. “There’s also a motion from the Department of Higher Education and Training that all dilapidated hostels should be refurbished before students can occupy them. “This will be based on the availability of funding and the final go-ahead by the department,” he said. “Only a few students didn’t receive their money because of incorrect information submitted. According to Nsfas, it is the students’ responsibility to make sure all the information submitted is correct. “The bursary officer is working to resolve outstanding matters for those who qualify.”