TWO people were killed during a violent protest on Monday, 1
August. Tembisa, Ekurhuleni, was on fire as municipal offices,
vehicles and a power substation were torched. Roads leading to the kasi were barricaded with rocks and
burning tyres by protesters, who were angry over high electricity and municipal
rates. They accused Mayor Tania Campbell of ignoring their demands
and failing to show up at a community meeting on Friday, 29 July. But the mayor
said the demonstration was orchestrated to make the kasi ungovernable. Early in the morning, a truck was also torched on the R21
highway. Metro police spokeswoman, Chief Superintendent Kelebogile
Thepa, said they were engaging with other law enforcement agencies, including
the police, to assist in containing the situation as they were outnumbered. Rubber bullets were used to disperse a crowd, which was
throwing stones. “Two males were fatally wounded as a result of the protest
action,” said Thepa. She said investigations were underway to determined whether
Metro police were involved in the deaths. “This is a devastating scenario and the situation is
extremely volatile. “We urge motorists to drive with caution,” she said. Resident Dorcas Malatji said the mayor was not taking them
seriously. “Tembisa is getting punished for the sins of others. “Our electricity is overpriced and we are expected to pay
water as well. “We will not stop until we are heard,” she said. Campbell said she sent five mayoral committee members to
engage with residents last week. “But that meeting unfortunately failed to reach any
resolution,” she said. In a statement, the mayor said she would be contacting
Premier David Makhura to develop a co-ordinated approach. “We are concerned that the visuals we are witnessing in
Tembisa are no longer community-based but rather a well-orchestrated operation
to render the township ungovernable,” she said. Ekurhuleni Municipality spokesman Zweli Dlamini said they
noted with concern the extensive destruction of public infrastructure. He said: “Since the start of the service delivery protest,
the Rabasotho Customer Care Centre has been set alight and four council-owned
vehicles also got burnt. “The Thafeni Pay Point was also on fire, as well as the
substation on Andrew Maphetho Drive.” He said law enforcement agencies were monitoring the
situation.“