THE ANC Integrity Commission declined to probe or listen to how President Cyril Ramaphosa’s campaign to become the party leader was funded. This despite widespread allegations that it was funded for about R1 billion, against party policy. This emerged in a leaked audio of the ANC national executive committee meeting, in which Ramaphosa was responding to a question about the CR17 bank statement. Responding to Tony Yengeni, he said that he had prepared a response about how his campaign was funded and the cash used. He denied that public money was used to fund it, but rather that it was ANC members and private individuals. “I had prepared detailed accounts. As I appeared before (the commission) they said no, we are not interested in what happened in the past. We just want to talk about how campaigns should be regulated going forward. “I said we need to learn from the past so that we are better informed on how best to solve problems in the future. They basically said no, we’re not interested,” he can be heard saying. Ramaphosa further said he had proposed that the 30-page document, still in the hands of the commission, be shared with NEC members. The funding came to light after Public Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane investigated the donation to his son Andile Ramaphosa by Bosasa, following a complaint by then DA leader Mmusi Maimane. Investigations led to revelations that his campaign was funded by about a billion, of which Ramaphosa rejected. In his testimony at the State Capture Inquiry, he put the figure at more than R300 million. He said perhaps the error by those running the campaign was that they were doing things in a certain procedural standard he did not disclose. Ramaphosa acknowledged that public money was used in campaigns to transport people, and he was willing to have his campaign be scrutinised to save the reputation of the ANC. “When some commentators wanted to investigate all campaigns, I said it was enough to focus on one – CR17. I said that because I don’t want the ANC to be dragged in the mud when those investigations bring that a lot of money of public money was used. “I said in this case, I am prepared to fall on this sword,” he said.