FORMER Springbok prop Tendai “Beast” Mtawarira’s Beast Foundation has come to the aid of many struggling school learners. Along with his partners, Mtawarira awarded over R7 million worth of bursaries and scholarships “to help narrow the gap and level the playing field, so that there is always equity of treatment for every child, and a shift to equal opportunity for these future leaders.” The Beast Foundation, in collaboration with the Inspired Education Goup, awarded three high school scholarships to the prestigious Reddam House Helderfontein, situated near Fourways, Joburg. This was after the scholarship applications were opened in September and over 200 applications were received from across South Africa. Shortlisted candidates were taken through a rigorous process to ensure deserving high performing academic achievers were selected. The final scholarships were awarded to Njabulo Zulu from Joburg and Ethan Makombe from Durban, who will both be starting their Grade 8 year at Reddam House Helderfontein, and Tshenolo Gaesenewe from Potchefstroom who is a Grade 9 student. The five-year high school scholarship covers both tuition and boarding fees, and this year The Beast Foundation has also sponsored school uniforms, stationery, and textbooks for the beneficiaries. The Beast Foundation is the brainchild and lifelong dream of the former Rugby World Cup winner who was present at the scholarship handover ceremony this week alongside Inspired Education Group’s Marketing Director, Keke Raviv, Reddam House Helderfontein’s Executive Head, Graham Bennetts and the parents and families of the three scholarship beneficiaries. “I would like to encourage all of you as you start this new journey to embrace the surroundings and the environment because you are in a great place,” said Mtawarira who has 117 Test caps. “By investing in young people and their education we have an opportunity to create the next generation of leaders who will be change makers in society,” concluded Mtawarira.  