CONDOLENCES continue to pour in for the late veteran actor Patrick Shai, who allegedly took his own life. Shai is remembered by the many roles he played on South African television. However, some remember him by the real-life role he played in fighting gender-based-violence (GBV). Many paid tribute to the legendary actor on various social media platforms. Veteran broadcaster Robert Marawa tweeted a video of Shai in action, motivating people to surround themselves with positive minded people. In a tweet, Marawa said: “Was always in awe of this man’s talent... Got to spend time with him on the 12th October last year at an event in Mamelodi. I shot this vid of him motivating people that we had come to address... Hard to believe... Rest in peace LEGEND!!!” Rapper Reason said: “Sometimes as artists, we make mistakes. We say or do the wrong things and it is the public reaction that brings us back to reality. “I just hope now you realise how much impact your words have on our lives when you ‘call us out’ or ‘put us in our place.’” Phelokazi Maduna said: “It’s a pity that Ntate Shai has now taken his life. I am deeply sensitive around this matter because it’s clearly a mental illness thing. But I think it’s high time that men start seeking therapy. Otherwise they will continue to hurt people,” which is one the things Shai was advocating for. The Department of Sport, Arts and Culture (DSAC) also conveyed condolences to friends, family and colleagues of Ntate Shai. ALSO READ : SHUDU MAKES TOP 40! In their statement, they reflected on his role as an activist against GBV. “As a self-confessed reformed abuser, Shai was exceptionally vocal in the fight against gender-based-violence and femicide (GBVF). He committed his life to the struggle against GBVF and was a prominent ambassador of the Golekane Campaign, an anti-GBVF behavioural change intervention programme of DSAC, aimed at encouraging progressive conversations among men in the fight against GBVF,” said the department. “Shai is most prominently known for starring in productions such as Bophelo ke Semphekgo, where he played the role of Nkwesheng; and further went on to secure his place in the South African hall of fame with roles in numerous productions such as Soul City, Hillside, Generations, Zero Tolerance and Yizo Yizo to name a few. “He featured as a lead character in feature films such as Critical Assignment and Cry the Beloved Country. He was nominated for a 2014 South African Film and Television Award in the Best Supporting Actor category for his role in Skeem Saam; and again in 2018 for his portrayal of Jacob Moloi in 7de Laan. Recently, he featured on 1 Magic’s The River, playing the role of Mr Pasha.” The SABC said Shai’s dedication to his work will be sorely missed. “He also appeared on SABC dramas such as Zone 14, Soul City, Moferefere Lenyalong, Skeem Saam, 7de Laan and recently Uzalo where he spoke out against gender-based violence (GBV) in the storyline involving Nosipho, played by Nompilo Maphumulo and Njeza, and played by Nkanyiso Makhanya,” said the SABC. Shai’s family said his funeral will be on Saturday, 29 January. Sometimes as artists, we make mistakes. We say or do the wrong things & it is the public reaction that brings us back to reality. I just hope now you realize how much impact your words have on our lives when you “call us out” or “put us in our place”.#RIPPatrickShai Was always in awe of this man's talent....Got to spend time with him on the 12th October last year at an event in Mamelodi....I shot this vid of him motivating people that we had come to address.... Hard to believe....Rest in peace LEGEND!!!???????????? pic.twitter.com/GeJCyVDwni   