SWALLOWS FC coach Dylan Kerr has a huge dilemma. Kerr revealed that the club can’t afford to sign a single player during the current window period. To add to his frustrations, the Englishman is sitting with a bloated squad of 38 players that needs to be trimmed down to a manageable size to ensure they achieve their target of getting 36 points in their remaining 12 league games. The low flying Birds are third bottom on the DStv Premiership log with 14 points from 18 matches. Only one point separates them from TS Galaxy who are tied with Baroka FC at the basement on 16 and 15th positions, respectively – but they both have a game in hand. “I need to release players before I can sign any player,” said Kerr. “I have 38 players and the budget goes through the roof. They are all under contract, so how do you release them?” The Englishman said he has now resorted to trialists in a bid to refresh his squad before they resume their league campaign on 16 February, opening against Stellenbosch FC at the Danie Craven Stadium. “I have no option but to bring trialists. I brought five players from Limpopo who play for lower division clubs to assess them,” he said. “There is nothing I can do under this circumstances because we don’t have money to sign experienced players.” Kerr stressed that lack of quality strikers in the country is the reason they are affected since they have scored the least number of goals (9) in the league. “Scoring goals is a problem in South Africa,” he reiterated what other PSL coaches have complained about. “I have only three strikers out of 38 players. We don’t produce quality strikers in this country.” The 54-year-old mentor is also concerned about the long holiday break which could kill his team’s momentum following a hectic schedule prior to the festive break. “We played six games in 17 days, that’s ridiculous,” he said. “We now have an eight weeks holiday, how can you work like that? The long break obviously kills momentum because we need to start from scratch to prepare for remaining games.”