RELEGATION threatened Black Leopards hope relocating to the newly refurbished stadium in Malamulele will boost their survival chances in the GladAfrica Championship. The Limpopo-based outfit are second from the bottom of the log with 14 points from 17 matches. Jomo Cosmos are at the bottom of the table with 13 points from the same number of games. Club official Divhambele Mbalavhali described moving to their new home at the Malamulele Stadium as a breath of fresh air, from Thohoyandou Stadium. Mbalavhali hopes the move will signal the beginning of a new dawn and inspire them to survive relegation. PSL chief operating officer, Ronnie Schloss and his team, will inspect the stadium today. The 15 000-seater arena will inspire confidence, according to Mbalavhali, and he shared in the players’ excitement about the relocation. “The PSL delegation is coming to inspect the stadium, field, and dressing rooms. We are confident that we will pass the inspection,” Mbalavhali said. “Everything is in order, and we have no reason to lose sleep over their visit. “We will pass the inspection and get the approval to play our home matches in Malamulele. The stadium is not far from Venda, and it will help to increase our fan base.” Mbalavhali said they increased the capacity by adding a stand, relayed the pitch, and revamped the dressing rooms to meet PSL standards. Coach Joel Masutha, who joined them to help with the fight to survive relegation last year, will hope that the relocation will bring them luck. Lidoda Duvha started their training camp last month and barely gave the players time off as they are determined to beat the drop. “The coach and players are happy with the move. We did not take a break and worked throughout,” Mbalavhali said. “We will survive relegation, and coach Masutha will provide a plan to dodge the dreaded axe. The chairman regularly motivates the players, and we will work hard to retain our status,” he added. Lidoda Duvha will start their bid to avoid relegation away to Pretoria Callies at the Bidvest Stadium on 20 February.