Gunmen are on the run after killing four people and injuring
another in Zwide in the Eastern Cape on Thursday. Kwazakele police were called to the scene at approximately
11:00. When they arrived, they found two cars, a blue Suzuki and a
yellow Opel Kadett, stationary in Johnson Street, Zwide. Both vehicles were
riddled with bullet holes. According to police spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi
Kinana, a person believed to be the driver of the Opel had died and the bodies
of three other victims were found lying in the street, next to the vehicles. "A fifth male victim was found with multiple gunshot
wounds in his body and was rushed to a local hospital for medical treatment,"
Kinana said. Police also recovered two 9mm firearms on the scene. A search for the suspects was currently underway, with no
one arrested yet. Kinana said the victims' names and ages would be released
after a formal identification had been done. The provincial Organised Crime Investigation team in
Gqeberha was investigating four counts of murder and one case of attempted
murder. "The recovered firearms will be sent for ballistic
testing. The motive for the murders is not known at this stage and all possible
leads will be followed up on." Provincial commissioner, Lieutenant-General Nomthetheleli
Mene, was shocked at the murders. She ordered the activation of a 72-hour mobilisation plan in
order to trace and track down those responsible for the murders. "Taking the lives of others seems to be a culture in
some areas of the Eastern Cape. I am going to ensure that such a culture does
not survive any longer in my province. We shall nip it in the bud wherever and
whenever it manifests. It must stop now, than later and the culprits must be
found," said Mene. Anyone who can assist the police in their investigation in
tracking and tracing the suspects is requested to contact provincial Organised
Crime - Detective Sergeant Mvuyiseko Xhayimpi on 079 896 7010 or Crime Stop on
08600 10111.  Callers may remain
anonymous and all information will be treated with the strictest
confidentiality. SOURCE: NEWS24  