The PSL prosecutor Advocate Zola Majavu has confirmed that they have charged Kaizer Chiefs following their no-show in two DStv Premiership matches. Chiefs will appear before the PSL disciplinary committee on 21 January to answer to their failed appearance for their league matches against Cape Town City at FNB Stadium and Golden Arrows early last month. Majavu said: "Chiefs have been charged with their non fulfilment of their fixtures, as a result of allegations that most of their players had tested positive (for Covid-19). That case has been enrolled for hearing on 21 January at 4pm." Chiefs had a nightmare month with Covid-19 attacks in December last year with over 50 positive test results reported, pushing them out of their planned fixture against City and Arrows. On 3 December, Amakhosi alerted the PSL to their plight and requested a postponement of their five December fixtures, but the league took forever to address their matter, resulting in them missing out on the matches. City and Arrows honoured their respective matches against Chiefs, but had to bow out without their opponents. On 3 December, Chiefs released a statement that: "In light of the recent outbreak of Covid-19 infections that has befallen the club, Kaizer Chiefs submitted two letters to the Premier Soccer League pleading for the postponement of the remaining matches scheduled for the month of December following the outbreak." And four day later, they further wrote: "Following further consultations with the medical department and management regarding the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak that occurred at the Village last week, Chiefs is unable to travel for the league match against Golden Arrows." Chiefs have since vowed to challenge the league on this matter, which has been described as complicated by the league. Majavu promised that he will inform the public on the outcomes of this case, as well as others that he is currently working on. Chiefs Unable to Host Cape Town City match: https://t.co/kGeLSPt5LG#Amakhosi4Life Update: Chiefs Will Not Face Arrows Following further consultations with the medical department and management regarding the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak that occurred at the Village last week, Chiefs is unable to travel for the league match against Golden Arrows.#Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/IPz0zPMFep The senior counsel confirmed that the Citizens, in another case, pleaded guilty to charges that emanated from a protest lodged by Maritzburg United in relation to their fixture played without proper requisite players' cards. He said: "The matter proceeded and was almost finalised on the same basis. The responded club, City pleaded guilty as charged and were duly convicted. Submissions with regards to the sanctions were made by relevant parties. Final sanction is reserved by the DC until no later than next Tuesday." He added that they charged Arrows relating to fielding an ineligible player, Brighton Simo Mbhele. "The case has been enrolled for 20 January at 6pm," said Majavu,