The Pietermaritzburg high court adjourned the Zulu royal
family multi-court case battles for Wednesday, 12 January. Judge Mjabulelwa Madondo heard the arguments about the first
case of late king Zwelithini’s first wife queen Sibongile Dlamini Zulu who
demanded 50% percent of the late king Zwelithini estate as she claims she was
the only one who was married in a civil union while other five queens were
married in customary law. Queen Sibongile failed to convince the judge in their court
application papers and they requested the court to give them another chance to
amend their application.  The court is set to rule tomorrow on whether it will allow
them another chance or not while it will hear another Zulu royal house court
case. Queen Sibongile Dlamini lawyer advocate Nigel Redman said
Queen Sibongile civil married the only one which is valid and other queen’s
marriages are invalid. “In our court application we didn’t put the validity of
other marriages, now we have applied to amend our application and make clear
that other marriages were invalid. “We hope that the court will grant us the permission to let
us present our new amended application,” he said. King Misuzulu and Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi’s lawyer
advocate Griffiths Madonsela opposed their application to amend the court
application. “We oppose their application for the amendment at the late
hour where the matter is set for the two days. “The case was based on civil and customary law and when it
comes to the amendments the case is now shifting away from the civil law,” he
said. Amabutho and izintombi defied the other of the Zulu nation
Traditional Prime Minister Prince Mangosuthu who ordered them to not come to
court because of Covid-19.  They came in numbers wearing their traditional attire
singing and dancing songs that support king Misuzulu. The secretary of Amabutho leaders Muzi Nyandeni told
DailySun that as much they were urged to not come to court but they will not
hold their arms when they see other people putting their king in the court. “It is the shame that our king Misuzulu has taken to court
and we still asking ourself that what he has done wrong. “If there is someone he owes he/she must tell us to pay that
bill. Who has the right to take the king to court? He/she must tell us the
color of the cows that were paid by the nation to pay the lobola of his/her
mother” he said. The virginity tester for izintombi zomhlanga and cultural
expert Nomagugu Ngobese told DailySun that they will follow king Misuzulu no
matter what the court says.  King Misuzulu’s second wife queen Nozizwe Mulela and king
Misuzulu’s brothers Prince Simengaye and Prince Bambindlovu attended the court
while the applicants were represented by their legal team The court will also hear late king Zwelithini’s daughters,
Princess Ntandoyenkosi Zulu and Princess Ntombizosuthu Zulu-Duma who are
challenging the validity of the will of the late king, saying it cannot stand
as some of the signatures in it have been flagged as forged. The will led to
king Misuzulu's appointment. It will also hear Prince Mbonisi's application who wants the
court to interdict those who are recognizing king Misuzulu as the king as the
Zulu throne dispute is attended by President Cyril Ramaphosa to resolve it.  