Gauteng police seized five firearms and 43 rounds of live ammunition while conducting crime prevention operations on New Year's Eve. Blue lights, firecrackers and cries of "Happy New Year" echoed through the empty streets of Johannesburg as Hillbrow residents remained indoors for the crossover into 2022 despite the lifting of the Covid-19 curfew. The police conducted what they termed "disruptive operations" together with other law enforcement agencies in Johannesburg, Ekurhuleni, Tshwane, Sedibeng and the West Rand. The officers were accompanied by Gauteng police commissioner Lieutenant General Elias Mawela and Gauteng Community Safety MEC Faith Mazibuko. Mawela and Mazibuko led an Okae Molao operation with police officers and members of the Johannesburg Metro Police on the M1 north in Johannesburg. Police spokesperson Colonel Dimakatso Sello said officers were out in full force to ensure that Gauteng residents were safe during New Year's Eve celebrations and beyond, as they intensified crime prevention duties and visibility across the province. She said the integrated multidisciplinary operations resulted in more than 480 arrests for different crimes, including possession of unlicensed and illegal firearms, drunk driving, dealing in drugs, and the possession of suspected stolen vehicles. Several undocumented persons were also arrested. "Traffic fines of more than R250 000 were issued for various offences and seizures were also made varying from dangerous weapons, drugs, liquor, firearms and ammunition. "In Johannesburg Central, an intelligence information led to the discovery of five unlicensed firearms and 43 live ammunition in different incidents. All the firearms will be subjected to ballistic testing for possible linkages to other crimes," she said. Sello said the operation also saw police claiming back the streets of Hillbrow "which is infamous for reckless and lawlessness during the New Years' Eve celebrations". The arrested people are expected to appear in various courts on Monday. Mawela said he was pleased with the work of the police and commended Gauteng residents."They've made our work very easy. If residents continue to work with us and conduct themselves responsibly, the levels of crime will surely decrease," he said.For those who will be spending their first moments of 2022 behind bars, Mawela said: "We'll keep them safe, and they'll see the magistrate on Monday."