FOURTEEN people were killed in two different places in KZN in just one day. Eight people were killed in Richmond while six were killed in Amaoti, north of Durban, on Friday, 14 January. In both incidents, it is believed that unknown people opened fire. KZN police spokesman Brigadier Jay Naicker confirmed the shootings. He said on Friday night, police in Richmond were informed of an attack on a homestead at Esigcakini location. He said according to neighbours, at 9pm they heard gunshots emanating from the homestead and proceeded to investigate. “That is when they discovered that eight people were killed and two were injured in the attack on the homestead. The deceased are aged between 15 to 41 years old and one of the deceased is a 17-year-old female,” said Naicker. He said police in Richmond are investigating eight cases of murder and two of attempted murder. “Police are appealing to anyone who may have information with regards to the identity of the deceased to contact them or Crime Stop on 08600 10111. According to information gathered from the community, it appears that the homestead was being used as a drug den and it is suspected that the attack might be drug related,” he said. In the other incident in Amaoti, Naicker said cops in Inanda are investigating six cases of murder after a shooting on Friday. Naicker said it is alleged that at 2:30pm, a car with three occupants arrived at a tuck shop and opened fire on a group of men who were seated behind the tuckshop. “Six men aged between 17 and 26 years old were killed in the attack,” said Naicker. He said at this stage information gathered from the scene indicates that the deceased were seated behind the tuck shop consuming drugs and that the attack might be drug related. “We are appealing to anyone who may have information with regards to the identity of the deceased to contact police at Inanda or Crime stop on 08600 10111,” said Naicker. A resident from Amaoti who asked not to be named told Daily Sun she was at home when she heard gunshots. “It’s so sad that so many young people were killed,” she said. She said they heard that this shooting is related to drugs. “Many young people are taking drugs in our area,” she said.