PODCASTER MACGYVER “MacG” Mukwevho (34) says radio stations are out to get him. “They have started a hate campaign against me,” he said. “RADIO BOSSES ARE EVEN PAYING PEOPLE TO ATTACK ME!” With more than 495 000 subscribers on YouTube, MacG’s podcast is the second most listened to in the country. He said a Twitter influencer approached him saying he was being paid R60 000 by a radio station to spread a negative narrative about the show. “They asked if I could match or beat R60 000 a month,” said MacG on his YouTube show Podcast and Chill on Monday 24 January. “All of this is with the objective of making our platform less attractive to potential advertisers and sponsors.” MacG, a former child star, said his show was a threat to traditional radio. The former radio presenter said he had long suspected people were attacking him, but he now had proof. “Once advertisers realise they are advertising to an empty stadium on the radio, we will see new players in the digital space,” he said. “The more successful the network becomes, the more of a threat we are.” MacG said he was hurt by what radio stations were trying to do to him. “Obviously, I felt heartbroken when I heard this because radio was my first love,” he said. “It’s no longer about how I feel, it’s about pushing the culture forward for the next generation of podcasters.” He said he would not be giving the involved radio stations free publicity by mentioning them. “Radio is not our competition. After becoming the number one urban podcast in the world, we have bigger fish to fry such as Joe Rogan. Radio is not on our radar.” MacG’s podcast gained continental recognition when it was commissioned to air on MultiChoice’s Channel O last year. Each episode of the podcast has got a lot of people talking, and some even getting themselves in trouble with their conversions including rapper and TV presenter Jub Jub and actress Nathasha Thahane. Most recently he made waves internationally after his controversial interview with American singer Ari Lennox and his line of questioning. 