WITH the spotlight on well-known stars such as Sadio Mane, Riyad Mahrez, and Mohamed Salah, supersport.com takes a look at some of the future stars that could take the tournament by storm and make a career breakthrough. There are a number of lesser-known players who carry a big reputation and this tournament could just be the stage where they realise their full potential Kelechi Nwakali (Nigeria) Nkwali skippered Nigeria to glory and was crowned player of the tournament as Nigeria triumphed at the 2015 Fifa Under-17 World Cup in Chile. His performance at the tournament attracted interest from a number of top clubs, among them Bayern Munich and Manchester City, but he was eventually snapped up by Arsene Wenger’s Arsenal. Nwakali is a brilliant box-to-box midfielder with a very high work rate and contributes immensely in the team both defensively and in attack. After failing to break into the Arsenal first team, Nwakali is now rebuilding his career at Huesca in Spain’s second tier. Abubeker Nasser (Ethiopia) This is the second season since SuperSport started broadcasting the BetKing Ethiopian Premier League and a number of good players are beginning to get the spotlight, notably the Ethiopian Coffee talisman Nasser. The 22-year old, who can play as a centre forward and out wide, has been in blistering form for Coffee, scoring 29 goals in 23 matches last season and already has four goals in eight matches this term. Tino Kadewere (Zimbabwe) After getting only 20 minutes in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, the striker has been handed a second chance to show his goal-scoring prowess that earned him plaudits in the French Ligue 1. The striker confirmed his goal poaching reputation when he bagged 10 goals for Olympique Lyonnais in Ligue 1 last season. Rated as one of the best African stars in the French league, Kadewere will look to the Africa Cup of Nations for a fresh start to find his goalscoring form. Ilaix Moriba (Guinea) The 18-year old midfielder came through Barcelona’s famous La Masia academy, becoming one of the club’s best prospects before making his senior debut last season under manager Ronald Koeman, who preferred him ahead of Spain’s highly-rated Rick Puig. Amadou Haidara (Mali) With Manchester United faced with the prospect of losing Paul Pogba, the RB Leipzig midfielder Haidara has reportedly been identified by United interim manager Ralf Rangnick as an ideal replacement for the Frenchman. XSupersport.com