THE Premier Soccer League has officially unveiled four teams in the DStv Compact Cup after votes from the fans. Late last year, the PSL created a unique competition for fans to vote for their squad for the DStv Compact Cup from all 16 Premier Division clubs. This was to keep them watching the local football as the PSL programs will be paused from January until mid of February due to the Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) that is starting in Cameroon on Sunday. At first, the Compact Cup, where a winning team will pocket R1 million rand, was met by a lot of disapproval from club officials, who weren’t privy about the whole tournament, as well as fans. But it seems fans have taken their power on board by voting to select their squads from inland streams and two from coastal streams. However, fans weren’t given the power to select a coach and that was drawn out by the PSL at the press conference on Wednesday. The tournament will kick off on 22 -29 January. Speaking from the official squad announcement at the PSL headquarters in Parktown, Johannesburg, Multichoice South Africa CEO, Nyiko Shiburi said about the innovation. “We are excited to see the overwhelmingly positive response to the DStv Compact Cup from the fans. Football in South Africa has always been the game of the people. It was in this spirit that we came up with the viewer’s choice and asked fans to choose the players they wanted to see take the field as part of the four regional teams that will take part in this tournament." The DStv Compact Cup regional squads include eight defenders, eight midfielders, four strikers, two goalkeepers as well as four DStv Diski Challenge players. The PSL also conducted a draw to determine the technical teams, which was confirmed as follows: TEAM NAMES 1.Amabutho: Ernst Middendorp (coach), Abram Nteo (ass), David Phiri (goalkeeper coach), fitness trainer (Gerhard Van Der Merwe) 2. Coastal United FC: Steve Barker (coach), Job Maphutha (ass), Jorge Escano (goalkeeper coach), Tsosholosho Manamela (fitness trainer) 3. Dinaledi FC: Daniel Malesela (coach), David Notoane (ass), Thembalethu Moses (goalkeeper coach), Innocent Mchunu (fitness trainer) 4. Warriors FC: Dylan Kerr, Fani Madida (ass), Thuso Motlhosi (goalkeeper coach), Percy Moloi (fitness trainer). With regards to kits for these teams, PSL chairman Irvin Khoza said they won’t be drawn from clubs but they will have their own created for this unique tournament. 