LIMPOPO police have arrested 10 suspects, aged between 30 and 48, who are allegedly responsible for the Malamulele Police Station attack. The incident happened last November, together with several ATM bombings. This after information was received about the suspects, who had plans to execute an ATM bombing. Seven of them were found in their hide-out place at Medingen village outside Bolobedu while the remaining three were arrested at a lodge in Dwarsloop outside Bushbuckridge on Thursday, 20 January. Preliminary investigations positively linked them to several ATM bombings and armed robberies in Limpopo, including the recent incident at a filling station near the Capricorn N1 North Toll Plaza, where a police officer was shot and wounded in the process. They were also positively linked to the incident where a police sergeant, attached to Botlokwa cop shop, was robbed of his service pistol, R5 rifle and bulletproof vest. Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said they were able to recover 11 firearms as well as ammunition and explosives. He said some of the firearms were robbed during the attack at the station.  “We also recovered four R5 rifles, four shotgun rifles, three 9mm pistols, ammunition, police bulletproof vests, explosives, illicit cigarettes, blasting cartridges, overalls, balaclavas, security uniform, money and shoes,” he said. Mojapelo added that two vehicles, a Toyota bakkie and Mercedes-Benz, reportedly used to commit these crimes, were also seized. “Investigations have already begun to circulate the cars to determine whether they are stolen or not,” he said. The suspects will appear in different magistrate courts across Limpopo and Mpumalanga, facing charges of unlawful possession of firearms, ammunition and explosives, as well as conspiracy to commit crimes, attempted murders, robbery with aggravated circumstances, carjacking and attacking a police station. During her visit at the station, provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Thembi Hadebe said she was happy about the arrest. “We will also ensure that the remaining suspects are apprehended and firearms recovered,” she said.