THE community of Eersterus F4 near Stinkwater in Hammanskraal is reeling in shock after five men believed to be ZCC church members were swept away in a dam in the area. The men allegedly went to the dam on Wednesday, 12 January at about midnight to perform rituals when the incident happened. According to residents, everyone in the neighbourhood knows this is a dangerous dam. They said they were shocked after hearing what had happened. A church member said eight men went to the dam, but two remained behind in the car, while the other six went to perform rituals. “We are told two of them were from a funeral and we all know according to our religion, it means they were not pure. We heard from the one who survived that at about 2am, they saw some strong waves coming towards them and covered them.” He said the survivor managed to come out of the water and he felt as if the five men were trying to pull him towards them when he was struggling to come out. “The snake in this river is very dangerous and it is clear because when the bodies were retrieved, they were bleeding from the nostrils. We have lost as a community, and we wish everyone should just be careful.” Another woman said: “Residents of F4 in Eersterus need to be careful as this is a dangerous time for performing rituals at dams because of heavy rain. People need to be patient and wait for the right time.” Moses Ndima, the cousin of drowned Thabo Mogoroe (47) said the family was heartbroken as he was a breadwinner. “We were informed he came here together with his fellow members to do some rituals. Unfortunately, he didn’t come home alive. He had just bought a house for himself and his mother. I assume he came here just to say thank you.” Colonel Dimakatso Sello said police were investigating after five people were swept away by water while allegedly performing rituals. She said the dead men included Calvin Kagiso Baloyi (31), Karabo Vincent Phahla (30), Peter Thabo Mahlangu (51), Thabo Mogoroe (47) and Pontsho Ernest Khutwane (42). The bodies were retrieved from the river one at a time.