T hey are passionate about contemporary dance and want to take it to the next level. The friends plan to do this through their dance company, The Is’thatha Dance Project. The group is made up of six members – Olwethu Kelvin Sotiya, Mbulelo Mzazi, Lubabalo Pupu, Sandisile Madama, Monwabisi Bhence and Bongani Wellem – from Cape Town. The group was officially started in 2019 by Olwethu, who is also the artistic director. “The aim was to instil respect among the youth through art and dance classes. This was so they can express themselves in an artistic way, discover the possibilities available in this field and empower the youth. We also wanted to bring a breath of fresh air in the world of contemporary dance. ALSO READ : MASTERMIND: THE RETURN! “The public wants to see something new,” said Olwethu. The group studied at Indoni Dance Arts and Leadership Academy. “The group was started mainly for the love of art. It was also about creating and showcasing our skills to the public. “Otherwise my journey started when I was eight years old in Gugulethu, Cape Town,” he said. He said he then joined Zama Dance School, where he learnt ballet. “When I passed matric, I continued to further my skills in ballet. I then started doing contemporary dance. By the time I graduated, I knew I wanted to start a dance group. I then convinced my friends to join me and they happily agreed,” he said. In their first year, they had the opportunity to perform at Zolani Centre, Domination, Maiden Official Show in 2019. “We also performed at Baxter Festival. We also collaborated with various dance companies in Cape Town. “In 2020, we performed virtually at the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown, where we were awarded the Standard Bank Ovation Award,” Olwethu said. The group recently performed another piece called Initiation at the National Arts Festival in Makhanda. Again, it received the Standard Bank Ovation Silver Award for their performance. “Now we are busy creating a new piece called Uphalo, to be released in 2022,” he said.