THE death of award-winning DJ Karabo “Miss Ducasse” Mokanyane has sent shockwaves across Mzansi. Her death was confirmed through a statement by her family. They said she died on Wednesday, 29 December from complications following abdominal surgery. “Even as we try to come to terms with this sudden loss, we wish to acknowledge the outpouring of love, support, and condolences we have experienced on various platforms. “We have also been inundated with personal calls and visits to express sympathies,” their statement read. “The last 24 hours have demonstrated the love and respect Karabo enjoyed from her peers and, most importantly, her fan base. “For this, we are indebted to the industry that she loved so dearly.” ALSO READ | DJ HLO ADDRESSES THE HATE “Once we’ve finalised funeral arrangements, we will communicate details thereof, including memorial services in accordance with the prevailing Covid-19 regulations. “In the meantime, we ask the public to continue keeping us in their prayers and find ways of celebrating Ducasse.” Media personality Enhle Mbali described Karabo as a prayer warrior. “I’ll carry you in my spirit, chasing summer with every daring chance I get. I will fight for what’s right, no matter who I lose in my life. I will help always where I can, all in your beautiful spirit’s name,” Enhle said. “It’s quite evident heaven could not wait for you. God’s blessed to have you as his child in his eternal home. It’s going to be one big party in heaven one day, friend.” Businesswoman Carol Bouwer thanked the star for her music, love and friendship. “Thank you for loving us. We promise to swim the bluest waters for you and to fulfil some of the insane dreams you shared,” she said. The DJ’s funeral will be held on Wednesday, 5 January at Grace Bible Church in Soweto. Her brother Cambridge Mokanyane said: “Our hearts are still store and we are yet to come to terms with her passing as she had a lot ahead of her. “Only time will heal us but we are thankful and comforted by the support of her friends who have been there for us ever since she passed on.”