THEY WERE just three decent, fun-loving teenage boys – bunking school and being naughty. But then they fooled around with a gun, and what was supposed to be a joke turned deadly when the gun went off. AFTER ZUKISO SHOT NJABULO BY ACCIDENT, HE TURNED THE GUN ON HIMSELF. A memorial service will be held for the two boys from Lesiba Secondary School on Tuesday, 18Lesiba Secondary School January, at 9am. Njabulo Ndhlebe and Zukiso Majola both 16-years-old from Chief Albert Luthuli Park in Daveyton, Ekurhuleni, along with their third friend, sneaked out of school on Wednesday, 12 January, during break and went home. Zukiso showed his friends his late grandfather’s gun which he had taken during the December holidays without his parents’ knowledge.  In an attempt to impress his friends, Zukiso loaded the gun and started fooling around. But then the gun went off and Njabulo was shot behind the ear. In shock and panic, the third boy ran to his home and Zukiso ran after him asking him to help. Seeing the boys running away raised the attention of the neighbours who came out to confront the boys. In panic and fear, Zukiso ran back to his home, closed the garage and used the same gun to shoot himself in the head. The two grieving families said they were deeply saddened and in pain by the loss of their boys. “We thank the public and the community of Daveyton for all the sympathy during this tragic time,” said Sibusiso Nkabane, the representative of the two families. “We have held many meetings and prayer sessions since the deaths and will continue to do so until the funeral.” He said Njabulo, Zukiso and the third boy were schoolmates and best friends. “There was no quarrelling between them on the day and all three boys were good teenagers. The first death was accidental and a tragic mistake whereas, the second death was caused by fear and panic.” He said they stated unreservedly that they had a great festive season with Njabulo and the family and the boys were very fond of each other. “The families would like some privacy during this tough time as they grieve the tragic loss of their children.” Gauteng police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Mavela Masondo confirmed the incident. He said an inquest docket was opened. 