MEDIA personality Pearl Thusi is heartbroken that her house staff was stealing from her. The Queen Sono actress shared on Twitter that she was broken about it. “My home staff has been stealing from me. Broken heart, I’m hacked,” she tweeted. She said she didn’t have proof who stole the things missing from her house, but she’s sad because she felt like she lost family. “The saddest thing is when staff in your home steal from you, it’s like losing family. And without proof of who did it – you have to pay for their crime to let them go or deal with the CCMA. That’s actually crazy,” she tweeted. Her tweets were met with a lot of criticism, with people saying if her staff was stealing from her, it meant she was not paying them well. Siphe Gophe commented on the tweet and said Pearl should pay them enough. ALSO READ : LINDAH ON PRESSURES HE FACES AS A GAY MAN He wrote: “When your’e paying people enough they will never steal from you. Surely you’re paying them for washing your underwear, not for their efforts they do on your compound. You guys got money, please pay people enough.” Carlos said: “Ba right angithi. You don’t pay them well.” However, some advised the actress how to deal with the matter. Zoe September apologised to Pearl and wished her the best with finding new staff. “Yoh inzima le sorry. If you decide to let them go, please do so via the correct processes, i.e. disciplinary hearing. Give them a right to state their case etcetera to avoid CCMA and them slandering you on social media. All the best with finding new staff and people you can trust.” Kgotla Mosiapo said: “Gather all the evidence at your disposal. Sit them down, and confront them head-on. First see if you can work something out together. Try to establish a better understanding of what happened, if no resolution reached, follow stipulated procedures.” My home staff has been stealing from me ?? I’m hacked. The saddest thing is when staff in your home steal from you, it’s like losing family. And without proof of who did it - you have to pay for their crime to let them go or deal with the CCMA.That’s actually crazy. The stuff is just missing and no one knows what happened but they’re the only other people with access to the property missing ?? I’m actually hurt. I really cared for these people. https://t.co/Dmo4pVzuhg 