ITUMELENG Khune is looking forward to another opportunity to prove that he is still one of the best goalkeepers in Mzansi. And the Compact Cup final will offer the veteran Kaizer Chiefs shot-stopper just that. Khune, an obvious fan favourite, grabbed the first opportunity to impress with both hands in the semi-finals of the unique “viewer’s choice” competition. The 34-year-old stole the show for the Warriors when they defeated Amabutho 2-1 to book a spot in the final where they will face Coastal United. The final is set to take place at FNB Stadium on Saturday at 2.30pm, will be preceded by a 3rd and 4th place play-off between Dinaledi and Amabutho. Khune, who has seen little game time at his club Chiefs this season, has enjoyed every minute of exposure in the Compact Cup. “It’s a good opportunity for me to show what is still have to offer,” said a determined-looking Khune. “The fans still believe in me. I need to show that I still have it. I can still perform at a very high level. We all know that goalkeepers mature like wine, and I am showing that. “I am humbled by the reception that I have been getting from supporters from the country. I have been in this game for a decade and fans still appreciate me. I will continue rewarding the fans with good performances whenever I get the opportunity. “I will continue doing my best at training when I get back to my club. I am always behind whoever is playing, and I remain professional regardless of what the coaches decide. I have a lot of support and I continue to do it for them.” Khune has relished the opportunity to play alongside players from different PSL coaches and work under different coaches in the Compact Cup. Khune’s Warriors, who are coached by Swallows FC mentor Dylan Kerr, have superstars such as Thembinkosi Lorch and Keagan Dolly in their team. “It’s been a great experience,” added Khune. “It has been interesting having to adapt to a different philosophy and to play with different players. But as a team, we want to go out and entertain our fans who voted us in. The fans have shown faith in us, and we need to repay that with a good performance.” Khune’s opposite number, Oscarine Masuluke of Coastal United, believes they have what it takes to upset the star-studded Warriors. “We want to be the champions of this inaugural competition,” said Masuluke. “It wasn’t easy for us to come together and work well together as a team but we were able to do that.”