ACTIONSSA leader Herman Mashaba has resigned as Joburg councillor to make way for someone with the party to local government governance. Mashaba, who has led the party’s campaign to contest for Joburg mayorship during the local government elections, said he was happy about the quality of councillors in the party’s ranks to take up the position. Party spokesperson Lerato Ngobeni was quick to shoot down speculations that Mashaba could be stepping aside to make way for former Midvaal mayor Bongani Baloyi for the position after he dumped the DA for the green mamba earlier this year. Ngobeni said the newly recruit Baloyi was based in the Vaal, and would not therefore be eligible for Joburg councillor. “We have not yet confirmed who will take up the position vacated by Mashaba. We will announce that announcement in due course, but it’s not Bongani Baloyi. We have not yet identified any individual,” said Ngobeni. Baloyi earlier this month joined the party and has already been earmarked for the party’s candidate to contest as Gauteng premier in the next national government elections, although he has remained tight lipped on his candidacy. Mashaba, in a statement, said after the establishment of coalition governments following the local government elections, he had taken upon himself to oversee the appointment of party councillors. He added that since the caucus of the party in the council was settled and mayoral member of councils were set on making sure the party’s promises to the electorates were delivered, it was time for him to step back and give another member to gain experience in the council. “I’m very pleased to see the calibre of individuals that we have put forward as councillors. I have consulted my caucus and the Senate of ActionSA and there is agreement that my time must be spent leading the campaign to grow ActionSA into all nine provinces and to mount the challenge to the ANC in 2024. “The important work of expanding ActionSA will require my constant travelling to setup structures across the country, and my council seat should be filled by someone who is fully available to the needs of the residents of Johannesburg,” he said. Mashaba assured Joburg residents that he remain invested in the ability of the multi-party coalition to deliver effectively to all communities. “As the president of ActionSA, I will apply myself in the multi-party coalition to ensure stable and effective government that places the needs of residents first,” said the former Joburg mayor.