RETURNEE Premier Soccer League (PSL) prosecutor Advocate Zola “Java Lava” Majavu says the cases he has been handed by the previous prosecutor are straight forward. Majavu also confirmed that the PSL will soon reveal verdicts on the cases, such as that pressing of Kaizer Chiefs of no-show in two league matches last month after Covid-19 infection. The advocate also assured the league won’t have cases that will be outstanding come the end of the current season. Majavu, as previously revealed by SunSport last December, is back in the PSL as a prosecutor and replaces Nande Becker, who resigned on 30 November last year. The former PSL CEO Majavu was officially unveiled yesterday in a press conference. However, as he is coming on the short-term until the end of the season, but by the look of things, as quick as he was in the same post in his previous time to hand out punishments, he’s got work cut to give verdict on Chiefs matter and that of Cape Town City troublesome player Mpho Makola. Makola, according to the SunSport, has been charged by the league for pushing referee Thando Ndzendzeka in the MTN8 cup final on 30 October when his club City lost on penalties to Mamelodi Sundowns at the Moses Mabhida Stadium. “Indeed I have received a handover report from my predecessor,” said Majavu. “For which we have been working throughout the last part of December. I do have a sense of what is outstanding, what is pressing from the time point of view. “My team and I are going to be meeting straight after the press conference to develop a project plan that is going to be used in the January period to play some catch up. “There’s no crisis from what I’ve assessed, and I’m hoping that the clubs will also co-operate because we have to truncate the timelines in terms of the notice period for processes. “There will be charges going out this afternoon (Wednesday) and obviously the details I cannot disclose for now about those affected as they have been noticed.” Last season, the Polokwane City/ Sekhukhune United matter occurred on 2 January last year and was only cleared in the PSL desk after the end of the season. It had a major repercussion on the GladAfrica Champions winners. Royal AM initially topped the Championship, but with the matter of Polokwane City-Sekhukhune still outstanding, the KwaZulu-Natal club was dethroned from the top spot after Sekhukhune were awarded the three points. With the league programmes currently on pause until next month, Majavu said he will have a press conference before the end of this month and assured that no cases will be outstanding, come the end of the season.