MARITZBURG United have confirmed that their rising striker Bongokuhle Hlongwane has joined Major League side Minnesota United. According to the club, 21-year-old Pietermaritzburg born has signed a three-year contract with the MLS team. Hlongwane, who made his Bafana Bafana debut in June friendly match against Uganda where he also scored and the winning goal against Ghana in the World Cup qualifiers, has been the talk of the town that he was wanted by Mamelodi Sundowns. However, Minnesota has won the race to sign him having featured in 56 games for the club and scored eight goals along with seven assists. “It's been a pleasure to witness Bongokuhle’s growth both as a player and as a young man since he was identified and recruited into the Club's Youth structures four years ago," Maritzburg United Chairman Farook Kadodia commented. “He has flourished into a world-class striker and it's a credit to Bongokuhle that he has made the most of his opportunities and also to our coaches for helping him on his path. "Such has been the quality and consistency of his performances that it was not a surprise that the club had received several offers both locally and internationally for him, however, the player has always had his heart set on playing abroad and this opportunity presents him with an exciting new challenge to test himself in a highly competitive environment. “Bongokhule’s family also believed that this opportunity will assist their son’s ambition of competing and gaining experience both as a footballer and youngster in new surroundings. With the MLS kicking off in February, it was not possible to delay the move to the end of this season as we as a club would have preferred. ”Kadodia continued. "As much as it will sadden us to see him go, especially at this crucial stage of the current DSTV Premiership season, we are proud to see him embark on a new chapter in his career and we thank him for his efforts with Maritzburg and wish him all the best for his career at club and international level" concluded Kadodia