HEAVY rainfall has left Ladysmith in the KZN Midlands flooded. On Sunday, 16 January, the area started having heavy rainfall, forcing all the shops in town to close, as floodwater levels kept rising. To make matters worse, the banks of the Klip River close to town burst and caused even more flooding, leaving the area at a standstill and residents vacating their homes. KZN Co-operative Governance MEC Sipho Hlomuka set up disaster management teams to evacuate residents in town this weekend. He said so far, 70 residents were evacuated from flooded areas and moved to the indoor sports centre. “NGOs provided immediate relief, such as blankets, sponges and hot meals to affected residents.”  Hlomuka also warned communities against building along river banks and to avoid crossing low-lying bridges. Ladysmith Issue must be prioritised before it’s too late. Almost every 2nd year we withness the same... pic.twitter.com/aw32FtsJMr  “We recently experienced inclement weather conditions, which left a trail of death and destruction in their wake. So far 25 people have died, with one person missing and R3,3 billion in damage has been incurred during the summer season. We appeal to residents to be cautious.” Alfred Duma Municipality spokesman Siyabonga Maphalala said the great flood of water coming into the Klip River was flowing at extremely high levels. Maphalala said it was confirmed throughout the district that all rivers and dams recorded an increase in water levels. Al-Imdaad Foundation teams are on the ground in Ladysmith assisting shop keepers trying to salvage goods and stock as floodwaters continue to inundate large areas of the town.#alimdaad #ladysmith #floodrelief #evacuation #makingadifference #humanitarianaid pic.twitter.com/mmTcErvABn  “I’m appealing to all members of the community to observe safety precautions whenever attempting to cross any river or stream, especially in rural areas since I have also confirmed the Ingula River along areas of Peacetown, Watersmeet and Driefontein is full beyond capacity.” Mnambithi - Ladysmith, Kzn - the damage is just too much ?? pic.twitter.com/tpJEsDwAap  He said the business sector had been affected and the council placed on record that this was due to circumstances beyond their control. They could only confirm that teams were ready for mop-up interventions once the Klip River’s levels had subsided. “At this stage, council appeals to everyone to be calm and observe safety protocols in place,”