MUZIKAYISE Malephane told the South Gauteng High Court he was frustrated when he spoke about getting Ntuthuko Shoba raped by gang members in prison. This was revealed when Tshegofatso Pule’s murderer was cross examined by alleged mastermind Ntuthuko Shoba’s defence Advocate Norman Makhubela on Wednesday, 26 January. Makhubela told the court there had been a voice note circulating on social media where Malephane said he organised the 26 and 28 gangs to sexually violate Shoba for involving him in his mess. “The chat was between me and a group of friends on WhatsApp. One of my friends then decided to leak it without my knowledge. I was just talking out of frustration. I didn’t organise any gang,” said Malephane. Advocate Makhubela then said Malephane seemed to be an easily triggered man. “The voice note was not the only time you threatened Shoba’s life. During an interview with a journalist you said you hope Pule’s family finds him first before you do. Malaphane responded in saying that he was angry. “If I had laid my hands on him, I was going to injure him. What Shoba has done to me is not little. I agree that I executed all the work but if it wasn’t for Shoba, I wouldn’t be here,” said Malephane. Malephane told the court that he wasn’t Shoba’s first option to execute the murder. “Shoba told me said he went to a taxi rank to look for hitmen but they turned him down. So he came to me and said ‘kune flop’. He explained the flop to be that he has impregnated Pule and she doesn’t want to have an abortion.” Malephane said he asked him why he didn’t try to convince Pule and speak to her. “He said he’d been speaking to her and she had been refusing to terminate. Then Shoba continued to say if Pule were to give birth to that child she was going to ruin a lot of things with his wife and he would lose money. So I asked him how much money was it that would lead us to something like this. He said R8 million.” However, Makhubela questioned the fact that Malephane had never spoken about the R8 million payout before. Malephane told the court that the investigating officer of the murder trial was aware of the payout, but said he was not probed further hence he did not give details. He said he doesn’t know why the R8 million was not written in his statement. Makhubela said that he found it very odd that Malephane didn’t pursue payment from Shoba. “There was no way that he wouldn’t give me my money. I was either going to blackmail him and Shoba is afraid of me. He knows me,” said Malephane. Makhubela will continue to cross-examine Malephane today, Thursday 27 January.