AIM to buy things in cash and avoid taking them on credit. That is the warning from Lillian Gatjen, a credit adviser for Debt Solutions in the Joburg CBD. “Bad debt is a slippery slope that should be avoided at all costs and the simple message here is you must avoid the temptation to want to have everything now. “Save for what you want.” Gatjen said she dealt with overindebted clients every day, helping them through debt counselling to recover from bad debt. “A debt consolidation programme helps to remove people from the debt trap through consolidation of all their debt into one affordable monthly instalment,” she said. But not all debt is bad debt, according to TransUnion director Garnet Jensen. “The bottom line is that precious few of us can afford to pay cash for a home, car, tertiary education or even furniture. In fact, having credit is practically essential to navigating modern lifestyles,” said Jensen. She said the trick was to know the difference between good debt and bad debt, and manage your credit wisely. Jensen advised SunMoney what to watch out for. Student loans: Investing in yourself can increase your earning potential, and those increased earnings can help you pay off the debt more easily. Property: Many opportunities will make you money in the property market – if you make smart decisions. A simple plan is buying a home, renovating it and selling it for a profit – or renting it out on a platform like Airbnb. Car loans: For many, a car is essential – it gets you to work every day, and if you’re self-employed, it’s a key business tool. But buy with your head, not your heart, or it could quickly become a bad debt that breaks your budget. Clothing and consumables: Buying clothing on credit may seem necessary when you’re starting a new job, but dressing to impress has a downside. Credit cards: This is a convenient form of credit, but is often accompanied by huge interest rates. Credit card debt is one of the quickest entry points to a bad debt spiral if you don’t manage your payments properly. Micro loans: A lot of people fall into the trap of taking out micro loans to get them through the month or pay unexpected expenses. These loans have terribly high interest rates and should be avoided wherever possible.