WINNING the inaugural DStv Compact Cup has motivated Swallows FC coach Dylan Kerr to push harder in his attempts to save his troubled Dube Birds from relegation before the resumption of the DStv Premiership campaign. Kerr masterminded Warriors 2-1 win over Coastal United in the final of the viewers’ choice competition at the FNB Stadium on Saturday. The former Baroka mentor, who has been tasked with reviving Swallows’ campaign, will be encouraged by the form shown by the Birds’ players in the Compact Cup. His star striker Ruzaigh Gamildien seems to have rediscovered his scoring touch as he bagged a brace in the final, while teammate Thabo Matlaba produced an impressive assist. Monnapule Saleng, another Swallows player, was also on the scoresheet in the semi-final as his goal sent the Warriors into the final. All three of the Warriors’ goals in the Compact Cup were scored by Swallows players, and this will fill Kerr with plenty of optimism heading into the second half of the campaign. “The PSL is a very tough league,” said Kerr. “All I keep saying to my Swallows players is that we need to win games so we can win things. “I tell my players that they need to stay in the top flight by any means. “It’s very important that they stay in the top league because their families depend on their salaries to survive. If you want your family to keep seeing you on TV, then you have to stay in the top league. “As a player, you only have two options and that is to either be the best, or be like the majority who are content with mediocrity. It’s all about winning. That’s the mentality I have and I will try to instil in my players. “I want all my players to believe in themselves and trust what we are trying to achieve and together we will keep Swallows in the Premiership.” Kerr, who won the Nedbank Cup last season with Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM), now known as Marumo Gallants, revealed that he’d like to clinch the trophy for a second time with the Dube Birds. Swallows get their Ke Yona Cup campaign up and running with a clash against TS Sporting at Dobsonville Stadium on Saturday. “I want to win it again, no doubt,” added Kerr. “And so, we will do our best to have a good run and hopefully go all the way.”