SENEGAL has received a major boost after Napoli defender Kalidou Koulibaly confirmed that he has recovered from Covid-19 ahead of their nation’s final Africa Cup of Nations Group B match against Malawi at Kouekong Stadium today (6pm). The all-powerful defender missed the first two Group B matches against Zimbabwe and Naby Keita’s Guinea, alongside Chelsea goalkeeper Edouard Mendy, due to the virus. There is also good news for the Teranga Lions as Bamba Dieng, the last of the players to recover from the coronavirus, arrived on Saturday from Senegal. PSG midfielder Idrissa Gana Gueye and Fode Ballo Toure, with the latter duo forced to miss the game against Guinea after returning positive tests, have since tested negative and resumed training with the rest of the squad. Without Koulibaly and Mendy, Senegal’s performance has not been convincing, relying on Sadio Mane against Zimbabwe to score the winning penalty in the last minute before shooting blanks against a well organised Guinea side. Senegal is second in the group with four points, while Guinea sits top after collecting the same number of points. Malawi boosted their chances of Afcon knockout stages after Orlando Pirates striker Gabadinho Mhango scored twice to down Zimbabwe to move to third in the group with three points. It means Senegal will find Meck Mwase’s Malawi side highly motivated as the Southern African side is looking to book their spot in the knockout stages for the first time in their history. For Malawi to stun the powerful Senegalese side, Mhango and its captain Limbikani Mzava, with the latter tasked to stop Mane, Keita Balde upfront, will have to be their best. It is more intense for Ghana after they were stunned to a 1-1 draw by Gabon in Group C on Friday.Ghana meets pointless Comoros at Roumde Stadium today (9pm), knowing a win is non-negotiable. Morocco has confirmed their top spot in the group after winning both of their matches. They are followed by second-placed Panthers’ Gabon, who have four points while Ghana has one. Gabon, who faces Morocco at Ahmadou Ahidjo Stadium at the same time today (9pm), needs just a point to finish second and reach the last 16.