N1 SOUTH between Zebediela Weighbridge and the Mokopane offramp in Limpopo was closed for more than a day after New Year’s Eve on 31 December. This followed a terrible head-on crash that killed six people, while two others escaped with serious injuries. A Toyota bakkie allegedly had a burst tyre and the driver lost control, colliding head-on with a truck. The truck then overturned, blocking the south-bound lanes. All six occupants from the bakkie – two adults and four children – were killed on impact. The truck driver and a passenger trapped in the wreckage were rescued and rushed to Mokopane Hospital with serious injuries. Limpopo transport spokesman Mike Maringa said the N1 between Polokwane and Mokopane was then closed. “It took emergency personnel 27 hours to clear the road. The road was finally open for traffic during the afternoon of 1 January,” he said. Meanwhile, six people lost their lives in two accidents on Saturday evening, 1 January. The first incident that killed four people happened on the N1 North next to Capricorn Plaza in the Vhembe area. This is after a Renault driver allegedly was overtaking recklessly, colliding head-on with a Nissan minibus. Three male passengers and one female were killed instantly, but both drivers escaped with serious injuries. Maringa said unsafe overtaking was the probable cause. In the other accident, two people were killed in a head-on collision between a Mercedes-Benz and a Toyota on the N1 South near Modimolle. The Mercedes-Benz driver was allegedly speeding and lost control, colliding head-on with the other oncoming vehicle. “Both drivers were killed on impact and three passengers were rushed to hospital. Speeding and reckless driving is believed to be the cause of the accident,” Maringa told Daily Sun. Transport MEC Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya is worried about accidents that continue to claim lives in the province because of reckless and negligent driving. “We are expecting traffic volume to increase today, especially on the N1. I want to urge road users to be extra cautious and obey the rules of the road. “Our law enforcers are still out in numbers, and they will not tolerate lawlessness and reckless behaviour,” said Lerule-Ramakhanya.