PSL prosecutor Zola Majavu has confirmed that Cape Town City has been fined R100, 000 for their misconduct on Monday and half of that is payable immediately. However, the rest of the money is suspended for 12 months on the condition that the club is not found guilty of the same offence. City was charged after they played a league match against Maritzburg United without valid registration cards at DHL Stadium in Cape Town on 7 December, which is against the PSL compliance manual. But the Cape Town club confirmed that their player registration cards were missing after someone broke inside the club’s team manager Moenier Davids’ car just before the game got underway. To salvage the situation, City were able to make copies of cards for the match to go ahead, but this was not sufficient for them not facing the charge as they were not originals. Having been alerted about this, Maritzburg played the game under protest which was lodged 30 minutes before the game started as they are mandated to and paid a protesting feel of R20000 to the league. City went on to win the game 3-2. According to the NSL Handbook’s Rule 15.7 says: “A Member Club which does not produce the identity registration card for a Player or fields a player without an identity registration card or an invalid identity registration card will be charged with misconduct.” Also Rule 4.10 of the PSL rules says: “In the absence of an original registration card, the principle of ‘no card, no play’ will apply. A player who takes the field despite not having provided an original registration card at the pre-match inspection will be ineligible. The sanction set out in this clause will be applied to the Player and his Member Club together with any other sanction deemed appropriate by the Disciplinary Committee.” However, Majavu confirmed City has been charged for the misconduct. “The sanction as determined by the Disciplinary Committee of the league is follows: The respondent which is Cape Town City FC has been fined R100, 000 and half of which is suspended for 12 months on condition that they during this period they are not found guilty of the same offence,” said Majavu. “The balance of the 50 per cent is payable within the 30 days from today (Monday) being the date of the ruling. Two, the PSL is to return the protest fee (R20000) to the protesting club Maritzburg. Three, Cape Town City is ordered to pay the cost of the sitting DC hearing to the PSL. Four, Cape Town City is further ordered to pay the cost of Maritzburg United on the attorney and own client scale for the hearing of the 12 January only.”