WITH one year to go before the International Netball Federation World Cup on home soil, SA Netball president Cecilia Molokwane believes the Spar Proteas are heading in the right direction. The Proteas lost four matches in the Quad Series against the netball powerhouses Australia, England, and New Zealand. However, Molokwane and head coach Dorette Badenhorst choose to look on the bright side of the team’s performance in the United Kingdom. The pair maintained it is not a train smash as they described the experience as a learning curve. The Proteas will return home tomorrow morning, and Molokwane has big plans for them, and she vowed to assist them with proper preparations for the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July. The Proteas were the lowest-ranked team in fifth place, but they gave the big guns a run for their money. They bowed out of the Quad Series with their heads held high. The Proteas produced a gutsy performance losing by a one-goal margin of 51-50 in the bronze medal match against New Zealand on Wednesday. “It’s a year to go to the World Cup, and our coaches have been doing well. We are taking one step at a time, and the team is growing in leaps and bounds. We included the young players for a succession plan as the older players will retire after the World Cup,” The Proteas will play against Australia in their opening game of the Commonwealth Games on 29 July in Birmingham. “The Quad Series came at the right time and moment for us to prepare for the Commonwealth Games to see where we lack and how we can prepare better,” said Molokwane. The lack of a professional league in Mzansi is a big challenge for the Proteas to compete against the best teams. “I have been crying and talking about the professional league. If you want to compete against the best, you must have a competitive league. You have to compare apples with apples,” The Proteas will play in the Diamond Challenge, Spar challenge, and a Test series against two high-ranking countries. “We are still negotiating with the two countries, and we will go to Jamaica for a tour. We have lined up activities for the Proteas to prepare them for the World Cup. Molokwane added that the Proteas must finish in the top three in the World Cup in Cape Town. Badenhorst said she was happy with their level of commitment and fighting spirit in the Quad Series. 