SUNSPORT can confirm that the disappeared Khayelihle Shozi has been found, alive. Shozi was reported to have disappeared and his doggy movements started to happen in October last year. The 27-year-old’s disappearance was all over social media with legend Teko Modise and Mamelodi Sundowns assistant coach Rulani Mokwena all asking those who have information about him not to hesitate but to call. There was a picture of Shozi circulating on Twitter where he was seen picking stuff in the dustbin, but others felt it wasn't him. Shozi, born in Pinetown, was playing for JDR Stars in the GladAfrica Championship where he was on loan from TS Galaxy .“Yes, I have found him in Johannesburg but I’m on my way now to where he has been found,” said Shozi’s brother Simphiwe. “Where he’s found is at SunCity and I’m trying to make plans because he seemed to be not in good condition and they have decided to keep him in the safe place. “Where is he is like in jail and they see that he doesn’t have a case for him to be held there. They felt he was looking for a place to stay.” Shozi was seen as someone who was going to replace Modise at Mamelodi Sundowns, as he had similar features in his game. But he couldn’t live up to that. Sundowns loaned him in the 2015-16 season to SuperSport United, thinking he will develop but did not start a single match. Where Shozi showed that he is a good player was at Black Leopards in the 2016-17 season, featuring in 25 matches for the GladAfrica Championship chasing side under Jean Loscuito, as they finished as runners-up to Thanda Royal Zulu. Sundowns then loaned him to Richards Bay in the 2017-18 season but struggled to adapt for the Natal Rich Boyz. Sundowns then parted ways with him and he joined Galaxy in the 2019-20 season before he was let go at the beginning of this season. His last appearance for JDR was against Cape Town All Stars on 18 September 2021. He was sent off by referee Victor Gomes and that’s where the trouble started. “He punched a player off the ball and it was not even 30 minutes before the game started,” said agent Sifiso Zwane, who is close to Shozi. “That’s where things started to go bad for him. From there he just went AWOL. He was called to the DC and did not appear because no one could locate him.” Coach Sudesh Singh, who recruited him around 2009-10 from Mabhuti Khenyeza’s team in the lower division to Sundowns development, was glad to hear Shozi was alive. “I brought him to Sundowns and he was an exceptional talent,” said Sudesh. “I hope football people/clubs don’t let him down, we can’t disappoint these kinds of unique talents. We also need deeper thinking actions into the mental health of our players, especially at youth academy levels.”