Painful urination (dysuria) is a common symptom when dealing
with infections in the urethra, bladder and kidneys, and can make you feel
uncomfortable and even disrupt your daily activities. Dysuria affects men,
women, and children and makes relieving yourself an extremely painful experience. Often this symptom is associated with infections such as urinary tract
infections (UTI). “Both women and men can experience dysuria and often it is
described as a burning, stinging or itching sensation, with burning being the
main description. This pain can be felt at either the beginning or the end of
urination depending on the type of underlying cause you have,” explains
Rashmita Davechand, brand manager of Tibb-Renotone, product of Tibb. “Often the pain associated with dysuria can affect your personal and work life,
and when experienced by children they will often refuse to urinate due to the
pain, which can lead to other health complications. Treating this symptom
together with the cause is a necessity.” According to the Urology Care Foundation, UTIs which can
cause dysuria, can be experienced by 2,5% of children and are most common in
children under five years old, with girls being more prevalent, and in adults,
women experience UTI’s 30 times more often than men. Women with mild dysuria
should drink extra water to try and flush the urinary system together
with pain medication and complimentary medication, such as Renotone. “Should
the dysuria persist after 3 to 5 days after you have increased water intake and
taken medication to help with the symptoms then the advice of a doctor should
be sort before a more serious infection develops,” explains Davechand. 
Dysuria might be a common symptom that many people experience due to an
underlying cause, but that doesn’t take away from the fact that is it painful
and uncomfortable and being able to manage this pain is an important step in
the healing process. Lifestyle changes can also help to avoid dysuria and keep
infections away: Treating dysuria alone won’t help the underlying cause,
which needs to be diagnosed by a health practitioner, but with the symptoms
reduced the possibility of carrying on with your daily life increases. Using a
complimentary medication such as Tibb-Renotone from Tibb Health Sciences can
help manage burning and painful urination, the persistent urge to urinate,
bladder discomfort and the frequent passing of small amounts of urine. It is
available in 60 tablets and 100ml syrup which is suitable for children from the
age of 3+.