SECURITY guard Jose Luis claims his bosses almost killed him on Friday, 24 December after accusing him of stealing two wheels from a TLB machine. The 27-year-old told Daily Sun four men tortured him in the bushes after kidnapping him and putting him in a car boot at his work on a construction site in Rolle near Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga. Jose, originally from Mozambique, said he was still recovering from the attack in his rented room after spending a week at Tintswalo Hospital in Acornhoek. He said he was off duty when he got a call from his angry boss, a service provider to the municipality, to report to the construction site office. When he arrived, his boss was there and he was later joined by another woman boss and four men. “They accused me of stealing two wheels from the TLB. They then tied my hands and legs with cable ties,” he said. Jose said they later put a plastic bag over his head and punched him. “They then put me in a car boot and drove with me to the bushes outside Edinburgh Village. They stripped me naked and tortured me. One of them pulled out a gun and threatened to blow my brains out,” he said. “One of them told someone on the phone to bring him shovels as the others hit me with sticks. When they realised I was dying in a pool of blood, they ran away with two of my cellphones. “I had to crawl through the bushes for help. Luckily, a Good Samaritan and his friends picked me up.” Jose said the trouble started when he demanded four months’ payment he was owed. His mastandi Thembi Maila (49) said her son phoned her saying Jose was severely injured and when she arrived home, she found him lying in a car covered with blood. “He can’t do anything for himself. We have to carry him to the toilet and turn him over in bed,” she said. Jose’s boss Beauty Nkambule denied the allegations. “I was not even there. Jose is making up the whole story,” she said. Bushbuckridge municipal spokesman Claiton Khosa said the matter will be investigated. Captain S’fiso Nyakane said a case of assault was opened and no arrests have been made yet.