ACTOR Patrick Shai has apologised to rapper Cassper Nyovest for swearing at him and his mum. The former 7de Laan actor posted a video of himself challenging Cassper to a boxing match on Monday, 17 January. In the video that’s trending on social media, Patrick swore at Cassper when challenging him. “I want to meet you in the ring, I want to bleksem you boy, before I die. I want to make sure I’ve beaten you so that on my tombstone, they write that this is the man who defeated Cassper Nyovest. Give me that, come,” he said. He then posted a video of him boxing the air while there were people cheering him on. However, Cassper wasn’t happy about the challenge and how Patrick spoke to him. He asked who Patrick was and why he swore at his mum. The rapper said being in the limelight has also affected his family because they are always being dragged into his drama. “If there’s one thing is regret about my fame is how my family has been disrespected by strangers. I try so hard to be about my own business but it’s always things like this and I have to keep it moving to protect my brand cause brands will never understand. This is too much man,” he commented on Patrick’s video. ALSO READ : INGOMA AWARDS COO SHOCKED BY DISMISSAL! He continued to write about his family and how they are affected. “This is way too much man. I can’t take it. Why are people always disrespecting my family? Trapped in this fame thing. I wish I could run up on all you devils and defend my family like any other man would. What is coming to all of y’all will be ugly! GOD KNOWS!” he wrote in one tweet. “Who is that old man and why is he calling my mom a b***h? Why does my family have to be disrespected like this yo? This is too much now!!! Modimo nna ha ke sa kgona, ke kopa thuso,” he wrote in another one. “I know my life looks perfect and s**t but it’s not. I’m human yo, I battle things you can never imagine. Every day I wake up & fight for me and my family. I don’t expect everyone to love me. You can disrespect me all you want, just leave my family alone. They aren’t famous, I am,” he continued. Patrick has since apologised to Cassper, where he said he regrets what he said. “I should’ve known better as an old person, my apologies. I humbly, humbly from the bottom of my heart apologise for having used such strong language towards your mum. Even though the challenge would’ve been an ideal thing, now it has been soured by what I said. “I apologise from the bottom of my heart, forgive me South Africans. I am regretting every bit of the last sentence that I used, I’m sorry,” he said. Cassper responded to the video and said people are using his name to trend. He tweeted: “These are some weird times yo. When everyone runs of out of ideas to trend they just think ‘Cassper Nyovest.’” If there's one thing is regret about my fame is how my family has been disrespected by strangers. I try so hard to be about my own business but it's always shit like this and I have to keep it moving to protect my brand cause brands will never understand. This is too much man. https://t.co/QYPy17N10r I know my life looks perfect and shit but it's not. I'm human yo, I battle things you can never imagine. Everyday I wake up & fight for me and my family. I don't expect everyone to love me. You can disrespect me all you want, just leave my family alone. They aren't famous, I am. pic.twitter.com/DHJRyV5Eav These are some weird times yo. When everyone runs of out of ideas to trend they just think "Cassper Nyovest". https://t.co/kLErqVDQ7J 