FORMER Orlando Pirates captain, Lucky Lekgwathi, does not doubt that he would be counted among the many former players who blew their fortune and ended up broke if it were not for the guidance and advice of those close to him throughout his career. Lekgwathi, who hung up his boots in 2016 at the age of 39, is one of a few retired players who are breaking the all-too-common trend of former football stars struggling to make ends meet after calling it a day in their playing careers. After his retirement, the 45-year-old former Bafana Bafana defender started his own businesses, which include his famous “Grootman” restaurant in Southdale, and a clothing label called “Fantastic14”, both famous among Pirates supporters. It’s through these businesses among other things that Lekgwathi continues to put food on the table for his family six years after retiring from football, which had been his main source of income for the better part of his adult life. Lekgwathi has credited his former boss at Pirates, Irvin Khoza, Ria Ledwaba as well as his close family and friends for giving him advice on how to manage his finances so that he doesn’t struggle after his playing days came to an end.“As a footballer, when you are at your peak, you need to remember that you won’t play forever, and that’s what we struggle to understand,” said Lekgwathi. “I was lucky to have people around me who told me early on that I needed to prepare for life after football. I had people like Dr Khoza and Mme Ria Ledwaba who guided me well in terms of managing my finances. “I listened to all the advice that I was receiving, even from my close family and friends. The one thing they all kept telling me was that I needed to start my own businesses to ensure that I continue to make an income after I retire. “I believe I made a lot of sacrifices even in my playing days to ensure I had a bright future after football. I didn’t drive fancy cars, I drove a bakkie. I didn’t like to rent expensive apartments, I wanted to own my own house. I didn’t go out partying a lot, I didn’t spend unnecessarily.” Lekgwathi now believes it’s up to people like him, who have been there and done that, to advise the current generation on how to prepare for life after football. “We try to speak to these guys, but they don’t listen,” added Lekgwathi. “They will tell you that ‘you had your time, it’s our turn to enjoy now and it’s quite sad because we know how it ends." 