TS Galaxy owner, Tim Sukazi, wants to see justice being done for the sake of all South African football supporters. A month after being manhandled by security guards and denied entry into Orlando Stadium, the Rockets boss is still spitting fire. Sukazi told SunSport that he cannot get over the incident, and hopes Pirates will be found guilty and get the punishment they deserve. He stressed that his wish is not to see Pirates get off scot free as it would not serve justice for local football. To put it bluntly, Sukazi wants the Soweto giants to own up to the incident and issue a public apology. Pirates were formally charged for misconduct arising from the incident with Sukazi, and Bucs appeared before the PSL disciplinary committee on Wednesday. The charges were formally put to Pirates, and they pleaded not guilty, and the matter had to be postponed to 15 February for evidence to be presented. PSL prosecutor Zola “Java Lava” Majavu indicated that charges were formally put before Pirates: “(Postponement) is for evidence to be led... one of the key witnesses for Pirates is currently out of the country on Caf business. Under the circumstances, the committee deemed it prudent to grant a postponement.” Sukazi said they would like to see “a clear verdict”. “We are monitoring the situation with keen interest,” a furious Sukazi told SunSport. “If Pirates are found guilty, they should lead by example, show leadership, and own up to their conduct. They must issue a public apology to the fans and TS Galaxy. “It is a terrible incident, and we look to Kaizer Chiefs, Mamelodi Sundowns, and Pirates as the smaller teams. We did not expect them to behave in that manner.” He insisted that he would be consoled “if they are found guilty and charged for what they did”. The Mpumalanga-based outfit are bottom of the DStv Premiership table with 13 points from 17 points. Sukazi said he and head coach Sead Ramovic would come up with a plan to survive relegation. Ramovic (42) is a German tactician with a Pro A License coaching badge, and he replaced axed Owen Da Gama in October last year. Sukazi backs the German and is confident that he will help them retain their PSL status. “He was thrown into the deep end without a pre-season. He found us in the worst possible position and won us 11 points,” said Sukazi. “It is not easy, but we are confident that he can pull off a rescue mission. We got off to a bad start and changed coaches, but the gap between the teams above us is not big, and we can still recover.” Ramovic was only due to take charge of the team next month but came to Mzansi ahead of schedule. He added: “He was supposed to come in February and learn our football and take over at the end of the season, but we had a change of plans after relieving Owen of his duties.” The Rockets will play their first competitive game of the new year against Chiefs in the Nedbank Cup first round on 12 February. In the 2018-19 season when playing in the GladAfrica Championship, they famously defeated Chiefs 1-0 to win the Ke Yona trophy at the Moses Mabhida Stadium. Sukazi said he would love nothing more than to embarrass Amakhosi in the cup again. “We created a rivalry with Chiefs, and they will be coming for revenge. We want to beat them again and become their worst nightmare. “We made history to become the first lower division side to win a cup, and the rivalry continues in the PSL, and we look forward to beating them again,” he said.