MHLENGI Madonda was a young man with
big dreams and aspirations. Working as a security guard, the
24-year-old from Vlakfontein, south of Joburg, had dreams of one day owning his
own security company. But sadly, his dream came crumbling
down after he met his untimely death on Tuesday, 11 January along with four of
his colleagues. This was after a heavily armed group
of men invaded the Pikitup depot in Devland and mercilessly shot and killed
five guards for reasons yet to be known. The young man’s family is struggling
to come to terms with his death, particularly with the manner in which his life
was cut short. Speaking to Daily Sun at their
Vlakfontein home, his uncle Zibonele Mandonda (53) said they are shattered as
Mhlengi had a bright future ahead and his life was beginning to take shape. “We are heartbroken, it is even hard
to speak because he was still young. There was still a lot that he wanted to
do. “Police must arrest the criminals,
we’ve placed our trust in police. It still feels unreal, I don’t know if I’m
dreaming or not,” he said. Zibonele said he left him at home
when he went to do his piece job. When he came back, he received the news that
Mhlengi is no more.  Just like many people in Joburg,
Mhlengi came to Gauteng looking for a better life and a job. This was according to his other
uncle, Khanyisani Madonda (43). He said Mhlengi came all the way from
Richmond, near Pietermaritzburg in KZN where he lived with his mum and two
younger siblings. “He came here in the beginning of
2020, looking for work after he was done with school. When he got here he
worked for me at my bakery, delivering bread. “When my business wasn’t doing well,
I had to let him go and he enrolled for a security course and got his security
certificate.” The family said he worked for two
security companies before working for the one he was working for at the time of
his death. They said he encountered problems
with the first two security companies as they allegedly struggled to pay him,
or did so late. But with the current one, which he
started to work for six months ago, they said things were started to shape up
and he had now started sending money home to his mum and siblings. Khanyisani said: “We were happy as a
family that he was now working a paying job, which was the initial reason that
brought him to Joburg. “He was doing a lot with the money he
earned. He was supporting his mum in KZN as she is not working and was depending
on him.” He added: “We are heartbroken as we
saw a bright future for him. He was someone who had dreams. He liked nice
things and wished to have them. “He said one day, he wishes to have
his own security company, but now this dream will not come true. “Even the family members in KZN they
don’t know what to do, because we expected a lot from him. He added: “Mhlengi’s death really
doesn’t sit well with us, even the people in the community are sad because he
was someone who loved people.” Khanyisani said they wish that police
can follow up this matter, so that the people who did this can be found. Police spokeswoman Brigadier Brenda
Muridili said cases of murder and attempted murder were opened and the
provincial investigation unit would be handling the matter.