THEY are twins and have chosen the road of music together. Lesedi and Lebone Khunou (30), originally from Alexandra in Joburg, are happy to be gospel singers and teaching each other new things as they grow. The twins said their journey of music started when they were 10 as members of the St Hubert Catholic Church’s choir in Alexandra, north of Joburg. They now live in Bramley, and left the choir when they were 25 as they were moving. In 2017, they released their debut album, titled Filled with Hope, that has 12 songs. Lesedi said: “The album was successful, and we are still building our name and brand. We will continue releasing singles until our second album in 2023.” ALSO READ : 'MY NAME IS DINEO AND I HAVE MULTIPLE GIFTS' She said they sang contemporary and traditional gospel music. “It is a blessing to work together because we share two minds and the burden of solo artists,” she said. She said they were both writing and composing songs. “We are called to sing gospel, and this is a way of giving thanks and praise for our music talent. “We have differences but not in music because in the industry, we are always on the same page. We are learning to trust each other’s opinion so that we can move forward,” she said. “I have learnt to be patient and value what we both bring to the group,” added Lesedi. Lebone said because of they look alike, people always struggled to separate them despite their personalities being different. “We are both single, and our biggest challenge is that people want to compare us as opposed to celebrating our differences,” she said. She added that they were working together at an insurance company in Joburg – her as a project manager and Lesedi in marketing. They both hold BCom Marketing Management degrees from University of Johannesburg. “We live together, like wings from Chicken Licken and only dress similar during a music performance and appearances,” said Lebone She said in September, they both took a break as presenters on an online VMC Planet Radio to focus on their projects. “It teaches me to be firm about what I want, and we do things together,” added Lebone. The twins shared the stage with Bucy Radebe, Takie Ndou and Canaan Nyathi during the 2021 Ingoma Awards at the House of Treasures in Joburg.