THE Eastern Cape is once again leading with the number of deaths at initiation schools. The initiate death toll is now sitting at 34 since the beginning of the summer season in November. The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities Rights (CRL) Commission chairman Luka Mosoma attributed the deaths to a failure to learn from others and illegal schools. Mosoma told Daily Sun that there were best practices in other provinces. “We also believe it is good to learn from others. There are regions, even in the Eastern Cape, that have good and best practices. But it would appear that certain regional leadership are not willing to learn from others. “The Mahlangus (in Mpumalanga) initiate 60 000 every four years. “The last count I saw was a death of one person as a result of asthma,” he said. However, Mosoma said not all the deaths emanated from illegal initiation schools. “It must be understood that deaths do not only occur in illegal schools, but these schools account for the majority of deaths. “Parental responsibility must be activated to make sure that when they send their sons to initiation schools, they are hands-on and know what is happening with their health on a daily basis until they graduate.” Mosoma said traditional leaders, such as queens and kings, should also be hands-on as these incidents were happening in their backyard. “The reason we emphasise the risk-adjusted strategy is that consequences management and accountability, that have not been a trademark before, will now be enforced. “For those found having committed gross negligence, leading to the deaths of initiates, must face the law,” he said. The national executive committee of Contralesa said it was shocked and devastated by the death of the 34 initiates in the province. The committee described the incident as a monumental disaster for the institution of traditional leadership and the country at large. The Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa’s general secretary Zolani Mkiva said: “We wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased initiates. “The continuing and unending fatalities in traditional initiation schools is unbecoming, unwarranted and totally unacceptable. “Not a single young man should lose his life for undergoing the rites of passage from boyhood to manhood.” Mkiva added: “We call upon law enforcement agencies to act swiftly, without fear or favour and arrest all those who are involved in this horrendous killing of our innocent children.”