THE contestants for this year’s reality TV cooking show MasterChef SA have been announced. With less than a month to go until the return for season four, the 20 contestants have been named. Season four returns on 28 February on M-Net (DStv channel 101) at 6pm, Mondays to Thursdays. The judges were announced last month and in the panel are Zola Nene, Gregory Czarnecki and Justine Drake. Here are the 20 contestants vying for the coveted title of MasterChef South Africa. ALSO READ : TEARY LACONCO SHARES ABOUT ZUMA SPLIT! Alicia Nicola (32) – Advertising creative director, Cape Town Signature dishes: Egg yolk and corn ravioli in a burnt butter and chili sauce with crispy basil leaves. Slow-cooked lamb ragu with butternut and goat’s cheese stuffed gnocchi. Favourite heritage food: Garlicky West Coast mussels with crusty bread. Karoo lamb chops on the braai with tomato salad and garlic bread. Andriette De la Harpe (33) – Entrepreneur, Cape Town Signature dish: Carrot cake. Favourite heritage food: Velvet pudding (fluweelpoeding), green beans mashed with potato. Charmaine Govender-Koen (39) – Self-employed, Cape Town Signature dish: Lamb breyani – slow-cooked lamb, with garlic and ginger, turmeric, loads of whole spices layered in basmati rice. Favourite heritage food: Sausage chutney, lamb breyani. Dedre “Didi” Stols (30) – Art auctioneer, Langebaan Signature dishes: Fish sauce caramel pumpkin puffs, soft Polish pierogi with sticky duck filling. Favourite heritage foods: Waterblommetjiebredie, lamb curry bunny chow. James Ovendale (19) – Former student, Cape Town Signature dishes: American-style smash burgers, infusing rooibos and fynbos flavours in his dishes Favourite heritage food: All things pap, for its versatility and that it is loved by our diverse food cultures. Lisa Kayster (26) – Human resources consultant, Cape Town Signature dishes: Cape Malay chicken curry, crumbed mushrooms. Favourite heritage food: Chokka curry, boeber. Luyanda Mafanya (27) – Food blogger and private cook, Joburg Signature dishes: Spiced rooibos malva pudding with homemade gelato and creme anglaise, braised ox tongue. Favourite heritage food: Umleqwa (hard body chicken). Masedi Mabe (25) – Freelancer, a Burgersmith, Joburg Signature dishes: Chicken pesto pasta, his Pink Panther burger. Favourite heritage food: Mogodu and skop (afval/ sheep’s or cow’s head). Matthew Arnott (25) – Freelancer and former teacher, Cape Town Signature dishes: Apple and pork belly risotto, lamb shank with gnocchi. Favourite heritage food: waterblommetjiebredie, malva pudding with custard, brandy snaps. Mohammed Haffejee (26) – Chartered accountant, Cape Town Signature dishes: Coconut panna cotta, mango caviar, lychee sorbet and crumble, as well as pistachio crusted lamb, pea puree, fondant potatoes and pan sauce. Favourite heritage food: Savoury smoked butter chicken; traditional milk tart. Onezwa Mbola (26) – Unemployed, Willowvale, Eastern Cape Signature dishes: Asian steamed pork dumplings, pan-fried chicken gyoza Favourite heritage food: Umvubo, imfino Ontiretse “Onti” Molloyi (32) – Digital marketing & communications specialist, Mahikeng Signature dish: Five-spiced flavoured pork belly with parsnip puree and chips, pickled apple, fennel and cucumber. Favourite heritage food: mogodu, samp (which she enjoys with pulled beef). Shawn Godfrey (34) – Commercial director and entrepreneur, Cape Town Signature dish: Asian-style mussels cooked over monster heat in his fragrant broth and served with crispy fried onion and heaps of parsley. Favourite heritage food: Smoorsnoek, bobotie. Silindokuhle “Sli” Moroke (27) – Content creator, Joburg Signature dishes: Beef lasagne from scratch, making his own patties and brioche buns for burgers. Favourite heritage food: Pap, lamb stew with spinach or cabbage. Simphiwe “Sims” Kubeka (25) – Software engineer, Midrand Signature dish: Homemade ravioli filled with pumpkin and pork mince (created with his gogo’s secret spice mix). Favourite heritage food: Samp and beans. Sylvie Hurford (49) – Marketing strategist and consultant, Cape Town Signature dishes: Greek lamb with skordalia, fresh hake with rustic mash and green beans in anchovy butter. Favourite heritage food: vetkoek with butter, apricot jam and boerewors; krummelpap with a smoorsous. Tarryn De Kock (28) – Senior researcher, Cape Town Signature dish: Harissa lamb ribs, peanut butter and banana profiteroles. Favourite heritage food and flavours: rooibos for its versatility, traditional chicken stew with amandombolo. Tasnim Jadwat (36) – Businesswoman and corporate director, Boksburg Signature dishes: Liquorice Sojee – a dish involves turning a classic Indian sweet dish into a new creation using deactivated charcoal and liquorice for flavouring. Favourite heritage food: Baked beans bunny chow and gatsby. Tembisa Jordaan (37) – Marine scientist and documentary filmmaker, Durban Signature dish: Wild mushroom samp risotto with beef medallion, balsamic reduction and lemon juice dressed microgreens. Favourite heritage food: Umphokoqo with amasi, amanqina enukhu (chicken feet). Udhir “Dr Harri” Harrinarain (28) – Dentist, Durban Signature dish: Butter chicken ravioli. Favourite heritage food: curry with dhal and rice; hot, freshly made chilli bites with a cup of tea. Catch the first episode of MasterChef SA on M-Net DStv channel 101 on Monday, 28 February.