Actor, musician and historian Mbuso Khoza wants Mzansi youth to learn about the importance of the historic Isandlwana battle. The Umkhokha actor will be teaching young people about the battle where the Zulu nation surprised the world by defeating the heavily-armed British army with just traditional weapons on 22 January 1879 in Nquthu, KZN. Mbuso, who’s also known for his singing of Zulu amahubo (hymns), will launch the Isandlwana Walk on Thursday,13 January at Ulundi, KZN where Zulu king Cetshwayo stayed during Isandlwana battle. On Friday,14 January he will do the 30km Isandlwana Walk from KwaZulu Cultural Museum to Emakhosini Valley of Kings with students and the youth. Mbuso told SunBuzz the two-day walk, starting on Friday and ending on Saturday, is important for teaching youth about the importance of the battle. ALSO READ: TOP UZALO ACTRESS EXPECTING FIRST CHILD! “The current situation allows us to bring back all history and cultures that belongs to us that was taken away from us by other people. “Our walk will consist of youth, students from different tertiaries, poets and some artists. We will be about 50 people on our walk.” He wished he could increase the number of people doing the walk, but it was important to comply with government’s Covid 19 regulations. Mbuso said there would more activities and lectures about the battle when they finished their walk on Saturday. “That war was important because what they were fighting for was touching our lives in the way we lived, as many things were changed after it. I wish the walk would be held annually to help the next generation learn about the battle, and I thank Zululand Municipality for partnering with us.” Mbuso will then move to Joburg to deliver the Isandlwana Lecture at Joburg Theatre from 21 to 23 January. The famous battle started on 22 January 1879 at Isandlwana Mountain in Nquthu and expanded to many areas in KZN. Mbuso said he was over the moon to showcase his acting talent for the first time on Umkhokha and he will also be appearing in the upcoming movie titled Induku on Showmax.