Anew clothing brand called Excelsior Lusso is taking over the Mzansi fashion industry. Excelsior Lusso was founded by Promise Mngomezulu and Mpho “Sir Ernest” Motsi. They said they are doing great and are excited about their new journey. Promise spoke to SunBuzz about the new brand and she said it was inspired by a diamond that was found in 1893 in the Free State. “Excelsior is inspired by a diamond that was found in a mine at Jagersfontein, Free State, in 1893. It was cut into 21 pieces and sent all over the world. Exclelsior is about celebrating Africa, we wanted to bring back all the luxury and beauty that we have in this beautiful country, but doesn’t get celebrated,” she said. Promise said Excelsior was officially launched in October at the Maslow Hotel in Sandton, joburg. ALSO READ : DANCING TO GREG’S TUNE! “Sir Ernest and I knew we could create magic together and that is why we came together to work on this project. We started in March, that’s when we started toying around with the idea and the whole concept was born around July. The launch was in October and we had our first showcase then,” she said. She said the past few months they have been operating have been hard, but great. “The past months have been challenging. This is because we had to think about the clothes we wanted to sell. We wanted them to be relatable. We know that there aren’t events and people are looking at ways of saving. We had to think hard and say yes, we do couture, and it needs to be extravagant. However, we also had to bring it down to ready to wear garments that can work for any occasion,” she said. “Making ends meet was a challenge. It’s been a difficult time because we are trying to introduce ourselves to the market and tell people we can offer what they are looking for. On the flip side of it, the support has been overwhelming. After the show in October, we got a lot of requests. Even celebs have been coming to our store and supporting us,” she said. Excelsior Lusso recently launched its Spring/Summer 2022 ready-to-wear line called Luhambo. “We did a 21-piece and it was inspired by the 21 pieces from the diamond found in Jagersfontein. This is the beginning of a 21 series of ranges we will have. The ranges will differ and talk to different people. The line is also inspired by the Basotho nation because our designer is Sotho,” she said.