MAMELODI Sundowns co-coach Manqoba Mngqithi insists that their Nedbank Cup Round of 32 tussle with GladAfrica Championship side Richards Bay will not be as easy as some might believe. The Tshwane giants were drawn against the Natal Rich Boyz in this season’s edition of Mzansi’s version of the English FA Cup. Downs have already bagged some silverware this season, winning the elusive MTN 8 which was the only trophy missing in their impressive cabinet. The Brazilians are hot favourites to win the DStv Premiership, their fifth on the spin as they currently boast a massive 14 point lead at the top of the table. Mngqithi’s side will now hope to complete a famous domestic treble by adding the Ke Yona Cup to their list of achievements this season. But he admits that this will be easier said than done. “You always expect anyone in that space,” said Mngqithi reacting to the draw. “I think that we are playing against a very competitive team in Richards Bay, they have done very well this season in the league. “They are up there, it tells us that we must know that they are giant killers, they’ve done very well in the past against big teams and that becomes very important for us to look at this and give it all the respect that it requires and work very hard to make sure that the team is ready.” Richards Bay proved last season that they are capable of pulling off the near impossible when they knocked out Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs. Mngqithi, however, is confident they will not suffer the same fate as Amakhosi. “We were a little bit unfortunate in the draw to get a team that will give us a hard time,” added Mngqithi. “But nonetheless we are confident of the team that we have, we believe they’ve got the capacity to upset any team in the league and we are hopeful that we will be able to get the desired results. “They are a closed book because we have not seen many of their matches this season, even on TV but we know that they are a team that always causes an upset, a team that is experienced in the Nedbank Cup and over the years they have done very well in that space. We have to tread carefully and make sure that we give them the necessary respect.”