ROYAL AM boss Shauwn “MaMkhize” Mkhize is set to give away more houses this year, after her collaboration with AmaZulu last year. Towards the end of last year, MaMkhize and Usuthu president Sandile Zungu came together and handed out a brand new house to the Gcaba family in KwaMashu C section which had a house burnt down on 9 April last year. MaMkhize, through her construction company, Zikhulise Group, came together with vernacular radio station Ukhozi FM in Durban, to urge families who are in need of a house to send applications through to run a competition to get a brand new house. Then the competition was launched through the radio station. And with over 20 000 applicants, Gcaba’s story was the winner in the competition. The Gcaba family saw their house burnt down to ashes after a candle light was left unattended. They were using candle lights because they couldn’t afford to buy electricity. But MaMkhize, after she and Zungu, who donated R100, 000 for furniture in the house, came together for that house to be rebuilt from scratch, she is continuing her pledge solo. She said she’s currently building 20 houses to give away. She said, in fact they are almost complete, as she’s commemorating 20 years in the construction industry with her construction company. “I’ve done two decades in construction. “So when I reached two decades in the construction industry, I felt I should give 20 houses to people so they can stay in them,” she said. The business tycoon and reality star said she once experienced the pain of having a house burnt down and was left homeless. “I know the feeling of not having a house and at some stage my house was burnt down and I had nowhere to go.” “I know how it feels like not having a home. I felt like I should try something and give 20 families houses this year.” Other PSL club bosses who have built houses for poor families are Chippa United boss Siviwe Mpengesi in the Eastern Cape and Richards Bay FC owner, Sifiso Biyela in Richards Bay, KwaZulu-Natal.