APHIWE Ngendane (26) says the last time she saw her mum, she gave her food and she replied with thank you. She said she only learnt the sad news of her death on Friday, 21 January, that she had been shot. ”All this doesn’t make sense to me,” she said, struggling to hold back her tears. Thembisile Ngendane (50) was killed last week outside Phomolong Secondary School in Tembisa, Ekurhuleni, where she was the deputy principal. Her husband Mbulelo Ngendane also struggled to contain his grief. “My wife, you left me in the morning and said you were coming back. I am still waiting to see you walking into the house, but it doesn’t matter anymore. I leave everything to God,” he said. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said: “We lost a very good teacher.”  Lesufi was one of the speakers at the funeral, held at Hope Restoration Ministries on Saturday, 29 January. Thembisile’s attackers had approached her as she was sitting in her car and shot her through the window. She got out to try and flee but she collapsed. While on the ground, her attackers continued to shoot at her. She died on the spot. Then the two suspects got into a white car that was waiting for them and fled the scene. They have not yet been arrested. The church was full as teachers, pupils, friends and community members came to pay their last respects. One by one, speakers hailed her as a woman of love, peace and a generous soul. Her husband, flanked by their daughter Aphiwe and son Sphelele, sat not far from the coffin. Reverend Xolile Ntshontsho said they were devastated, especially at how the teacher died. “We are living in a world where women are under attack. Today, Mbulelo has no wife because of her attackers. Her pupils don’t have a geography teacher anymore.” Then a neighbour said: “Thembisile is lying here today because of jealousy; people must fix their hearts.” One speaker said: “We appeal to the police to work hard so this case doesn’t get swept under the carpet.” Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said investigations were underway. Thembisile was laid to rest in Bredell near Kempton Park on Saturday.  