OWEN Ndlovu and the SABC’s fights are far from over. This time around, Owen is accusing the public broadcaster of stealing his idea for the TV show uShuni kaMaskandi. He claimed that this idea was not even presented to the SABC but before he knew it, he saw it on SABC 1. The show uShuni kaMaskandi currently plays on SABC 1 on Saturdays. The show follows the life of maskandi star Mthandeni “Igcokamelisha” Manqele. Owen said: “I want the public to know that this show is my concept. I conceived it and put the proposal together. Initially I wanted to organise a maskandi festival and call it uShuni kaMaskandi but I later realised it’d make a business sense to also package it for a TV show.” He said he only discussed this concept with leaders of the industry. “But I was surprised when I saw the same concept on SABC including the logo which I’d designed. I’ve watched uShuni kaMaskandi on SABC 1 and everything is the same including the name and the logo,” said Owen. ALSO READ | MUZI BIDS IMBEWU FAREWELL He accused the SABC of having a personal vendetta against him. “I’m beginning to think that someone at SABC is out to get me. First of all they stole my concept of Summer Song of the Year. As we speak that matter is in court. Now they are stealing uShuni kaMaskandi. I’m therefore demanding answers from SABC. I want to know how and where did they get this concept because it’s mine,” said Owen. Daily Sun has seen Owen’s proposal. He said he has not formally complained about it. “In the next few weeks I will be contacting the SABC. In my formal complaint I shall be demanding a share of whatever gains they made from this show,” said Owen. The president of the Cultural and Creative Industries Federation of South Africa Joy Mbewana also said the concept was stolen. “I can confirm that this concept was stolen. I can recall that it was discussed among colleagues and it was also emailed to me. Owen was about to present it to the public broadcaster when it was aired. We were all shocked and disappointed. We all need an explanation, “ said Joy. Spokeswoman for the SABC Gugu Ntuli said they are not aware of Owen’s allegations. “The SABC is not aware of the allegations by MOP (Michael Owen Productions). However, it must be noted that uShuni kaMaskandi is a licensed concept owned by a production house, “ she said.