A LOVING couple has a message for Mzansi. When you have a wandering eye, you might want to think once, and perhaps twice before you get under the covers. Because cheating sometimes really isn't worth it! Just ask this Mamelodi man, who suspected that his wife was cheating on him. He visited a sangoma, who gave him muthi. And the muthi worked as the man found his wife, (21) locked with another man two weeks ago. Although the couple separated after the incident, they have since worked things out. However, they shared their experience with Daily Sun. According to him, he was tired of his wife always having excuses not to poke. The 28-year-old from Mamelodi, east of Tshwane, said he consulted a sangoma as he suspected his wife was cheating. “My wife started to cheat after she went to a funeral in D4 in Mamelodi West in December. She was a changed woman since she came back from that funeral. “She always complained about being tired. She didn’t want to have sex with me and slept in another room,” he said. The man said he had to do something to save his marriage. “I didn’t want to lose my wife. On 25 December, I consulted an inyanga to help fix my marriage. “He gave me muthi to talk to about everything I wanted with my wife,” he said. On 3 January, his wife went to a baby shower in Mamelodi. He didn’t expect what he saw the following day. “My aunt called me in the morning saying my wife was locked with another man in the bedroom. I rushed there and they were still locked together. I didn’t believe what I saw,” he said. He said he still loves his wife and gave her a second chance. “Our marriage is in the healing process. We’ve been together for two years,” he said. He said his wife asked for forgiveness. “I don’t want to share my wife with other men. I now know no man will cheat with my wife because they will be locked. We will separate if this happens for the second time,” he said. The wife said that she cheated because she had stopped having feelings for her husband and he had become weak in bed. “When I had sex for the first time with the man I cheated with, I enjoyed it a bit, but felt pain. We realised that something was strange because his 4-5 was stuck inside me,” she said. She said she won’t cheat again. “Cheating is bad as we end up hurting people we love the most,” she said. The man’s aunt (61) said: “This is bad. It almost divided the family. We have forgiven her.” The wife’s uncle (42) said: “ We are happy they have reconciled.” Traditional healer Hassan Mulongo said when the man consulted with him, they found that his wife was cheating and he wanted to catch them in action. “I gave the man muthi to burn in his home and bath with some of the ashes. “He brought the rest back to me. We then waited for the action to happen. It took him about three weeks,” he said. 