 PRESIDENT
Cyril Ramaphosa will on Tuesday receive the second installment of the report
into the state capture inquiry. The
Presidency acting spokesperson Tyrone Seale said Ramaphosa will publish the
report shortly after it is handed to the director-general in the Presidency by
the commission’s secretary Professor Itumeleng Mosala. Ramaphosa
on January 4 received the first of three reports from acting chief Justice
Raymond Zondo, implicating several people. The
National Prosecuting Authority has since established a special unit that will
focus on prosecuting those implicated. The committee
was set up to determine whether former president Jacob Zuma or any member of
the present or previous members of his National Executive (including Deputy
Ministers) or public official or employee of any state-owned entities breached
or violated the Constitution or any relevant ethical code or legislation by
facilitating the unlawful awarding of tenders by SOE's or any organ of state to
benefit the Gupta family or any other family. Zuma
himself refused to give testimony accusing Zondo of being biased against him
and wanting him to recuse himself. Zondo rejected the application to recuse
himself and in the ensuing legal wrangling, Zuma was jailed for 15 months by
Constitutional Court for contempt of court and is currently out on medical
parole. “As
required by a ruling of the Gauteng High Court on 28 December 2021 – and in
line with the remedial action contained in the Public Protector’s report dated
October 2016 – the President will submit the full Commission report to
Parliament by 30 June 2022 with an indication of his intentions with regards to
the implementation of the Commission’s recommendations,” Seale said. Ramaphosa
said. During the
January 8 celebrations to mark the ANC 110 anniversary, Ramaphosa pointed out
that findings of the state capture report would be implemented but said he will
wait for the entire report and study it before taking any action. Ramaphosa
was reported saying the state capture was a systematic attempt at siphoning off
public resources and funds; it also destroyed the capability of the state and
led to the departure of capable people from public institutions as they resist
state capture. News24
reported him saying during the state capture some people were fired, some were
forced to resign, some gave up, some were suspended for long periods and they
left, adding those were the critical skills that our country was robbed of "It
(state capture) had the effect of undermining our democratic state and
threatening our programme of social and economic transformation,"
Ramaphosa said. Initially
set down for 180 days, it took the commission 400 days to hear evidence from
witnesses and led to 1438 persons being implicated with more than 3099 notices
being issued during the period August 2018 to 1 December 2021. In handing over the first report, Zondo
announced the summary of the report will only be published in part three of the
report. “We
appreciate that many would have liked to have the summary of the Report at the
beginning but this has not been possible. The Commission appreciates that many
people will not be able to read the detailed volumes of the Report and may wait
for the summary. “However,
the Commission believes that, given the amount of money spent on its work, the
volumes of evidence it collected, the many witnesses it heard as well as the
importance of the issues it has dealt with, it is of great significance that
evidence is summarised and properly analysed to show how the Commission reached
its findings and conclusions that it has reached,” Zondo said. 