THE most deadliest non-governmental organisation to house Life Esidimeni mental patients was again on the spotlight. This time, before the Life Esidimeni Inquest held virtually in the Pretoria High Court. Precious Angels saw at least 23 deaths within six months after patients were transferred from Life Esidimeni facilities. Former mental health deputy director Hannah Jacobus admitted during cross-examination that the treatment received by mental patients from Precious Angels would affect their health negatively. The NGO’s founder, Ethel Ncube, was not qualified to care for mental adult patients, but intellectual-challenged kids. During the arbitration proceedings, chaired by retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, Ncube testified that she had no qualification in caring for adults or sick people, but had a certificate in early childhood education. It further emerged that Precious Angels was not located on the address stated in documents, but it housed patients in two ill-equipped homes – one in Atteridgeville and the other in Danville, Tshwane. And, the sites were not licensed. On Wednesday, 19 January, the court heard a report containing a list of non-compliance from the two homes belonging to Precious Angels. These included poor hygiene, insufficient food, lack of staff, no emergency equipment, insufficient toilets and resources for stimulation and rehabilitation for patients as well as lack of security and no training in first-aid techniques. The court further heard that patients had no name tags or medical history, and some slept on beds without blankets. The building in Atteridgeville was a double-storey with redundant furniture where patient were kept indoors throughout the day and night. Jacobus agreed in court that patients were treated in an undignified manner. She said following these findings in July 2016, patients were moved to various hospitals much sooner but couldn’t recall the dates. Virginia Machpelah became one of 23 patients who died at Precious Angels following the findings. The court heard that Machpelah’s sister Christine Nxumalo, who is also a member of the Life Esidimeni family committee, had pleaded with the Gauteng Department of Health not to move patients to NGOs. But they were still moved. Following the move, Nxumalo spent weeks trying to trace the whereabouts of her sister until she received a call from Ncube that she was housed in Precious Angels and had died. Life Esidimeni patients were moved to 27 various NGOs, all with invalid licenses, and subsequently 144 patients died. Jacobus earlier testified that the process to move patients was rushed and chaotic. The inquest resumed this week, established to determine the cause of death of Life Esidimeni mental patients and whether anyone should be held criminally liable.