THE illegal cross-border movement into Mzansi from Zimbabwe, along the Beitbridge Border post in Musina, Limpopo, has been put to a halt. That’s after two floating boats were confiscated by the South African National Defence Force on Friday, 7 January. The boats were used daily to transport goods and illegal immigrants across the large Limpopo River. , a river inhabitated by wild animals such as crocodiles and hippopotamuses.Each trip is reported to cost between R350 and R400 per person. Defence Force spokesman General Mahapa Mokoena said after a tipoff from concerned residents, they set a trap and two floating boats were confiscated. “One person, who operated the boat, was caught and handed over to the police, while the rest managed to run away. “The boats were also handed over to the police,” said Mokoena. “There are many illegal crossing points in Limpopo but we have deployed enough soldiers to patrol the borderline.” He said most of the people cross over illegally to buy food and receive social grants and go back.“It’s a risky situation for both operators of the boats and the illegal immigrants. “Two weeks ago, we had a situation where two people drowned after the boat capsized.” Lovemore Moyo (40), who claims he is in South Africa legally, said it will be hard for the South African government to halt the illegal immigration.“The majority of Zimbabweans want to be here in Mzansi for work and businesses. “Stopping them coming here illegally is a pipe dream,” said Moyo. “I was once arrested and returned to Zim but found another way to come back here until I got legal documents.” Wilson Dzebu, spokesman for Musina Local Municipality, said: “Their presence in our city also improves the local economy as most of them buy groceries and other necessities from our town and return home but immigration laws must be followed.” Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo has confirmed that two boats used in transporting illegal immigrants crossing the flooding Limpopo River from Zimbabwe into the country were taken and one person was taken in for questioning and later released as he was not identified as the owner of the boat.