MARUMO Gallants trialists’ fate will be decided when coach Dan Malesela returns to the club next week. Veteran players – Lucky Mohomi, well-travelled former Orlando Pirates midfielder Thamsanqa Sangweni, Namibian international Joslin Kamatuka and former Kaizer Chiefs development player Itumeleng Shopane – are all training with Gallants with the hope of getting a job. But the players will have to wait a bit longer as Malesela is currently coaching the DStv Compact Cup team, Dinaledi in preparation for Saturday’s third and fourth play-off where they will face Amabutho at FNB Stadium (11.30am). “I am currently at home and will only go back to the club next week after the Compact Cup,” Malesela told SunSport. Sangweni, who has never reached his potential since making his professional debut with AmaZulu in 2009, will be hoping that Malesela will give him another chance to resurrect his ailing career. The two have worked together during their time at Chippa United. Even last season, Sangweni was signed by Malesela on a short-term deal before the club fired the coach. But his short stint was not fruitful as his contract was not renewed at the end of the season. The 32-year-old brother of Pirates legend Siyabonga Sangweni has been training with Gallants for two weeks. Another experienced midfielder, Mohomi, has also been at Gallants for two weeks. Mohomi last played for Venda Football Academy (VFA) after his departure from SuperSport United. At the GladAfrica Championship side, Mohomi only spent six months. Another player hoping to get a chance is 24-year-old striker Itumeleng Shopane who was released by cash strapped Pretoria Callies. Before the window opened, Malesela said that he was looking for two strikers to help his side improve upfront. In 18 league games, Gallants have only scored 12 goals. “We are not so troubled at the back (defence), but maybe one will need central midfielders for cover, or even for competition because that’s the best thing you can get from players. We also need wingers to cover and we need at least two strikers,” he said.