CELEBRITY couple Lady Du and Andile Mxakaza have split. The couple that got engaged in 2020 have called it quits and both took to social media to break the news about their split. The award-winning amapiano songstress posted first and said they didn’t break up, but followed their hearts. She said she has been attacked because of the relationship. “I am not one for gossip, it bores me. This is from my heart, we did not break up, we followed our hearts and that meant separating before things went south. I’ve had numerous attacks from people I didn’t even know, people making me uncomfortable because of culture, people attacking my character, scratching my cars. So I decided it’s best I follow my heart and leave my relationship,” wrote Lady Du. She continued to say they are both happy with the decision. ALSO READ : AARON MOLOISI LAUNCHES ONLINE RADIO STATION! “We also realised we want different things. So we are both happy with the decision and we ask that you kindly respect it. It hasn’t affected any of us. Let it not affect you or make you sad. It’s life. We all need to live honest lives. I love you WAWA,” she continued. Andile, who starred in Isibaya also posted and apologised to Lady Du, and said he is proud of her. “I am sorry you never found peace in our relationship. I am proud how you stood your ground and never gave up even when you were attacked by people. I want you to find true happiness and I am happy with the decision you made, you’re way stronger then you look. #qiniso lami @ladydu_sa,” he wrote. He later released a video saying people’s responses to the break-up was dramatic and asked them to stop acting like they’ve never seen a couple break up before. “Is this your first time seeing people breaking up? Is it? Please, love is like that, people fall in love and break up, especially when there are problem,” he said. He continued to say if they are meant to be, they will be fine. The two dated years back and they rekindled their relationship in 2020, where Andile proposed four months into the new relationship. Andile also posted a second video saying that he and Lady Du broke up because of witchcraft. "There are people who are harassing Lady Du, and have been doing that for a long time. I've also gotten tired of it. Women use witchcraft and I don't want to name and shame, but I know the person who did this, and they are continuing to do it. I am telling her to stop doing this for the last time. Stop harassing the poor woman because she's in a relationship with me, you're harassing her and using witchcraft on her. There are days where we don't sleep, praying because she can't see, she gets hurt too. Please stop this, I'm begging you," said Andile."She has done a big thing for me, she has helped me see who I am. I didn't know who I was, but when she came into my life. She taught me and showed me who I am. All those who are attacking her are doing it because they see I know who I am now, stop this because we know who you are. Stop being witches. If you want to use witchcraft on someone, let it be me because it's me that you want," said Andile.  A post shared by LADYDU (@ladydu_sa)   A post shared by Andile Mxakaza (@andilemx)  A post shared by Andile Mxakaza (@andilemx)  A post shared by Andile Mxakaza (@andilemx) 