CAPE Town City midfielder Mpho Makola has been banned for six months after he was found guilty by the PSL Disciplinary Committee (PSL DC) for unsporting behavior last year. However, PSL prosecutor Zola Majavu said Makola will serve a two months ban while the rest will be suspended on the condition that he’s not found guilty of the same offence. City, as his club, has been fined R200, 000, but the amount has been suspended for 24 months on condition that none of their players is found in the same misconduct. Makola was facing a charge from the league after he was seen laying his hands to a match official during the MTN8 final when his side lost to Mamelodi Sundowns on post-match penalties at Moses Mabhida Stadium on 30 October. The former Orlando Pirates midfielder saw his emotions triggered as he felt Sundowns goalkeeper Denis Onyango had come off his line early to save Thami Mkhize’s penalty. He along with Fagrie Lakay remonstrated to the official, but Makola made things worse as he put his hands to the match official (Karabo Baloyi, then first assistant) which according to the laws of the game, he is barred from doing. Because the incident was only captured by the league and not included in the match commissioner’s match report, Makola escaped the red card from referee Thando Ndzandzeka who in turn handed it to Lakay. “Cape Town City football club, the club for which Mr Makola played for, was fined an amount of R200 000 and was suspended for a period of 24 months,” said Majavu. “With regards to Mr Makola himself, he is suspended from participating in any football activities under the hospices of the league and Safa for a period of six months, four months which are suspended. “Which effectively means that he would serve two months suspension which will be the 1st of February 2022 and expire on 31 March 2022. “The balance of the four months which are suspended are suspended on the condition that during the next 18 months from the date of ruling he is not found guilty of the similar misconduct. “Put differently, if he were to be found guilty of the similar misconduct before the expiry of the 18 months he will automatically have to serve the four months which are suspended and will be sanctioned for the new misconduct. “Mr Makola and the club are ordered to pay the costs of the DC which the league will calculate and send to both of them.” Makola was previously handed a six months sentence by the PSL DC after he was found guilty of assaulting match official‚ Abongile Tom, during the Telkom Knockout fixture against Kaizer Chiefs at Cape Town Stadium on 19 October 2019. However, City challenged the ban and it was overturned by Safa’s Appeals Board and was turned into a four-match suspension. One wonders if City will challenge this case once again.