THE Nedbank Cup draw has afforded Kaizer Chiefs an opportunity to avenge arguably their most embarrassing defeat in the tournament’s history. The Soweto giants were pitted against  TS Galaxy in the Round of 32 draw which took place in Sandton yesterday. In 2019, merely month into their existence, Galaxy pulled off one of the biggest shocks in Mzansi football when they stunned Chiefs 1-0 in the final in Durban. Orlando Pirates striker Zakhele Lepasa, on loan at the Mpumalanga club at the time, scored the all important goal from the penalty spot in injury time to write his and the club’s name in the history books. Galaxy became the first team from the lower division to win the coveted trophy while the mighty Amakhosi were left with egg on their face. But three years later, the Glamour Boys will get an opportunity to give the Rockets somewhat of a taste of their own medicine by eliminating them form the same competition. Galaxy have since purchased the top-flight status of Highlands Park and are in their second campaign in the big time. In the other Ke Yona fixtures to keep a keen eye on, Orlando Pirates will have a tricky home clash against AmaZulu, while Mamelodi Sundowns will travel to KZN to take on Richards Bay FC, who knocked out Chiefs last season. Defending champions Marumo Gallants, known as Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila at the time, will host Santos while last season's finalists Chippa United will take on GladAfrica Championship outfit University of Pretoria. Cape Town City were given a tough draw against fellow Premiership outfit Royal AM but Citizens coach Eric Tinkler expected nothing less. “If we want to win this competition, we have to beat everyone to get to that final,” said Tinkler. “We have played them in the league and it wasn’t easy, we expect nothing less.” This year marks the 15th season since Nedbank took over as the tournament’s sponsor, and it promises to be one of the most exciting editions. The prize money remains at R7 million and clubs will be desperate to grab the final opportunity at silverware for the 2021-22 campaign. Full Nedbank Cup Last 32 Draw. NC Professionals v Mathaithai FC Royal AM v Cape Town City Venda Football Academy v African All Stars Maritzburg United v SuperSport United University of Pretoria v Chippa United Platinum City Rovers v Sekhukhune United Stellenbosch FC v Baroka FC Swallows FC v TS Sporting Tshakhuma FC v Golden Arrows Kaizer Chiefs v TS Galaxy Sinenkani FC v Free State Stars Richards Bay v Mamelodi Sundowns Marumo Gallants v Santos Orlando Pirates v AmaZulu Uthongathi FC v Summerfield Dynamos FC Black Eagles FC v Sivutsa FC