PREMIER Soccer League club bosses and player’s agents will be involved in a mad rush to the PSL offices to beat today’s January transfer window deadline. Kaizer Chiefs, who have been quiet since the transfer window period opened this month, could be among the clubs that will be signing players to beef up their squad ahead of the resumption of DStv Premiership when they play Cape Town City at DHL Stadium on 15 February. The Soweto giants have been linked with SuperSport United star Sipho Mbule. But defending league champions Mamelodi Sundowns are also reported to be after the 23-year-old midfielder’s signature. And the Free State-born star, who has been with Matsatsantsa a Pitori since the age of 19, has made it clear to the three-times PSL champions management that he wants to leave the club. Mbule’s contract with United is due to expire at the end of this season. And United could be forced to sell him now rather than see their top development product leaving for nothing in June. The Brazilians have already made an offer for Mbule, while Amakhosi have been reported to be busy negotiating with the Tshwane-based side. This month, Downs have already done business with their Tshwane neighbours United signing their midfielder Teboho Mokoena on a three-year contract. Now it remains to be seen if Mbule will remain with United or join Chiefs or Downs. Orlando Pirates are the other big team who could make some signing today as they have been linked with many players such Bafana Bafana and Baroka striker, Evidence “Tower” Makgopa, Sekhukhune United striker Chibuike Ohizu and Babina Noko captain, Yusuf Maart. It is not the first time Bucs have been linked with Makgopa. The 21-year-old was due to join Pirates before the start of this season, but the deal did not materialise. And now Pirates have been reported to have shown an interest again. Other teams that are expected to be rushing to PSL headquarters to meet the transfer deadline are those who are fighting for relegation, such as like Swallows FC, Baroka, Chippa United, Maritzburg United and TS Galaxy, who have already signed Vuyo Mere and Lefa Hlongwane.