CHIPPA United put a stopper to the advances of Mamelodi Sundowns, Golden Arrows, Orlando Pirates and Stellenbosch FC's on Moloisane Mokhele. The Chilli Boyz exercised their one-year deal, as his contract was expiring at the end of the season, to keep Mokhele in their ensemble. However, the club was in control of the situation, as they inserted an option to renew depending if they were happy with him. But based on the player’s performance, Chippa have wasted little time exercised the option on the winger who wears club’s number 10. In a letter seen by SunSport to Mokhele, signed by Chippa football manager Morgan Mammila, the club said: “This letter serves to inform you that Chippa United hereby exercise the one year option on your (Mokhele) contract. This, therefore confirms that you will continue to be contracted to the club for the season of 2022-23. We thank you for your commitment and dedication to the club and look forward to working with you in the coming season.” The 25-year-old joined Chippa at the beginning of last season when now Arrows coach Lehlohonolo Seema was in charge of the club. He has since scored four goals in 43 matches. Mokhele’s agent, Ratshibvumo Mulovhedzi, director of Rush Hour Sports Management, has since thanked Chippa management, led by Mammila and caretaker coach Kurt Lentjies, whom he played with at FC Fortune. “I would like to thank Mammila and the chairman Siviwe Mpengesi who took the risk to sign this boy in the first place,” said Mulovhedzi. “There were interests from clubs in Gauteng, but it was a very easy decision to take because I know Lentjies and he's a good person and coach. He’s the one who convinced me to take this decision. Lenjties is actually someone I played with at FC Fortune.” The Rush Hour Sports Management manages a number of credible players in the PSL, GladAfrica Championship and many others in lower divisions. Among others are Luckyboy Mokoena, Sibusiso Mthethwa, Stellenbosch FC center-back and Justice Chabalala who plays for Sekhukhune United on-loan from Orlando Pirates.