GAVIN Hunt will join English Premiership champions Manchester City for two weeks, as he studies their operations. The former Kaizer Chiefs coach, an African Cup of Nations TV analyst at broadcaster SuperSport, will fly to Manchester after the tournament on 6 February. The jobless Hunt said honesty cost him his job at Chiefs, and recently at Chippa United. Hunt (57) received an invitation from Man City, and he will go on a tour to watch and learn how they do things in the Premiership, attend their training sessions and matches, “and hopefully learn as much as I can when I get there”. “I will check out the environment and see if there are opportunities. I got an invitation from a friend, who works at the club,” said Hunt told SunSport yesterday. “For now, I am enjoying my role as an analyst at SuperSport, but I am available to take on new job offers.” Hunt, who parted ways with Chippa last year, said his biggest lesson in South African football is that he is too honest. “Maybe I am too honest,” he said. “Maybe I talk too much and am too opinionated, and club bosses dislike honesty in coaches. I lost my coaching job because of that. “But I will never change my principle for anyone else. I will stick to what I believe in.” Hunt has not received any concrete offers, and he had a few promises here and there, but he has availed himself for the next challenge. “In SA, it’s about who you know and not about your coaching experience and qualifications,” said Hunt. “I am ready for my next coaching challenge. I had good jobs and believe they will come again. “I am still looking, and nothing is available at the moment. I am willing to take any job that comes my way.” According to Hunt, the problem with Mzansi football is expectations and the signing of players. “We lack patience in this country. There are too many expectations in local football. You don’t get enough time to work with a team. Modern football is about transfer windows, and we need to know how to pick our trade,” he added. “I fear that it will get tougher and more complicated for a long time. Things will get horrible, and it won’t change. Timing is everything, and it is important to give people a chance to work and implement their philosophy.”