A crèche in
Gugulethu, Cape Town, was evicted from a building during the early hours of
Thursday, leaving more than 30 kids stranded with no place to go. The Uluntu
crèche has loyally served the Gugulethu community for 40 years. The crèche has
more than 80 kids, many of them relying on the food they get at the centre for
their only daily meal. Crèche
principal Nombulelo Mzimkulu told News24 she was "heartbroken and
devastated" that the sheriffs and police moved in and evicted them without
prior notice. "Today
(Thursday) at 4am the police and sheriff came to evict us from the building.
When I got to the centre, all our belongings were placed outside the gate and
[the centre was] fenced off with yellow police tape. The sheriff had opened the
locks of the doors and forced their way inside to clear out the building,"
said Mzimkulu. According
to the principal, she had not received any eviction papers or prior notice
instructing them to vacate the premises. She said
the building had been sold to new owners, who had advised her that they would
be building a shopping mall. According to her, they said they would make
provision for the crèche. "I
only received the eviction paper this morning (Thursday) when I arrived at the
crèche. I don't understand this sudden change of heart of the new owners. I was
not notified by any of the new owners that we must be out of the building as
soon as possible. My heart is very sore," said Mzimkulu. According
to emotional residents lining up outside the crèche, the kids have been asking
if they will still be getting food and where they will have to play and learn. Theodora
Lutuli, a principal at a nearby school, said she and many other teachers went
to the scene as a gesture of solidarity with Mzimkulu. "What
is happening at the crèche is unacceptable. This should not be happening in the
week when the school year kicks off. Where are these kids supposed to go? Many
of their parents are at work and have no idea what is happening right now.
Those parents relied on this centre for the safekeeping of their kids. Now what
must happen?" said Lutuli. Mzimkulu
said she had approached a nearby resident to accommodate the kids in the
meantime. She said: We have
notified the parents of what is currently happening at the premises. Some
parents have fetched their kids. Unfortunately, some of the parents cannot
leave their workplace right now so we will be looking after the kids until the
situation calms down and parents are able to collect their kids. According
to Lutuli, some residents have decided to prepare food for the children and
will take it to the temporary site so that they can have something to eat. "It's
not right that the kids should see what is happening to the building they know
and love. To see the police surrounding the area and not letting anyone inside
the premises is something children should not be witnessing," she added. According
to the school principal, huge tractors were parked outside, getting ready to
demolish the building on Thursday but residents have prevented that from
happening. Gugulethu
community leader Marc Mathebe told News24 the crèche's lawyers were currently
in the Western Cape High Court in Cape Town trying to stop the eviction. "This
eviction should not be happening today. The eviction was scheduled to take
place in March. What is happening outside Uluntu is unacceptable. There are
about 60 police officers on the scene," Mathebe said. A crèche in
Gugulethu was evicted from a building in the early hours of Thursday, leaving
more than 30 kids with no place to go.Photo Supplied More than 30 kids were
left stranded after their crèche was evicted by the sheriff of the court and
police.Photo Supplied The crèche's property was removed and dumped outside the
gates of the premises.Photo Supplied Yellow tape has been placed outside the
building as to not let members of the public inside. Photo Supplied Residents
said police fired warning shots when residents tried to gain access to the
building on Thursday. Mathebe
said: I am
devastated. I cannot believe that the police are shooting off gunshots with
little kids in the area. We have been running around trying to grab the
children and seeking some sort of shelter to prevent anyone from getting hurt.
It's crazy. We had absolutely no idea this is what we would be facing when we
woke up this morning. According
to Mathebe, they were waiting on feedback from the lawyers before deciding the
way forward. "Right
now, the kids have no place to go to. The parents are at work, we have no
building to shelter us. Early this morning, the kids were sitting on the tables
and chairs that were put outside by the police as nobody is allowed to go
inside. We are asking everyone to remain calm until the lawyers arrive so that
we know what steps to take next," Mathebe said. Police
spokesperson Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi said protesters had barricaded
the road using burning tyres and rubble. "Public Order Police [members]
used action to disperse the crowd. Our members will stay in the area to monitor
the situation," added Swartbooi SOURCE:
NEWS24 https://www.news24.com/news24/SouthAfrica/News/the-kids-have-no-place-to-go-gugulethu-creche-principal-pleads-for-help-after-eviction-20220120