The roof of the National Assembly building is on fire again and firefighters are currently trying to contain the blaze.  The almost two-day courageous
battle by firefighters against the flames that gutted various buildings of
Parliament suffered a set-back when flames suddenly flared up from the roof of
the Building this afternoon. Firefighters at the scene have been
reinforced following the sudden re-emergence of the raging fire. There are currently six firefighting appliances and a hydraulic platform, with 34 firefighters actively
fighting the flames at the scene. The resurgence of the fire follows
earlier information from firefighters regarding the risky high temperature
levels at the gutted buildings. JUST NOW: Unfortunately, after almost two days of brave battle with the flames in the National Assembly Building, more fire has just been fanned up. Firefighters remain at the scene and are continuing with the fight to bring fire under control #ParliamentFire pic.twitter.com/tNAHw0ThWU  The multi-agency and multi-pronged
team of engineers, which arrived at Parliament today was scheduled to begin
with its investigative work. Speaking to News24, the City's fire and rescue spokesperson, Jermaine Carelse said: "The Fire and Rescue Service confirms that the fire at Parliament has flared up. JUST NOW: Sudden re-emergence of raging fire at the roof of the National Assembly Building, a building where firefighters have been bravely battling the fire since yesterday morning. Reinforcement by firefighters underway #ParliamentFire pic.twitter.com/slDLbnaYIR  "The void beneath the roof sheeting of the national assembly is on fire. Currently there are six firefighting appliances on scene, as well as the hydraulic platform. There are about 34 firefighters are busy with active firefighting." Firefighters engaging in aerial hosing of the fire at the roof of the National Assembly Building following the flaring up #ParliamentFire pic.twitter.com/cMryylXCaO  The following roads are closed as firefighters attend to the fire on the roof of the National Assembly:Bureau and Adderley;Roeland at Hope Street;Plein between Spin and St John's;Roeland closed at Buitenkant towards Parliament; andSt John's closed at Vrede.