 HE THOUGHT he would be living his dream after he graduated as a professional nurse. But instead, his life has now been turned upside down. AND IT’S ALL BECAUSE A TOKOLOSHE AND OTHER EVIL SPIRITS WANT HIM TO GO TO CHURCH AND WORK FOR GOD. However, the 36-year-old from Daveyton in Ekurhuleni believes going to church would detach him from his ancestors and traditions he grew up observing. The man, who is his family’s breadwinner, told Daily Sun he has been a nurse for more than 10 years. The evil spirits allegedly started torturing him in January last year. “These spirits torture me to the extent I miss work because I wake up late. I have already received many written warnings for late coming,” he said. The man said that the evil spirits, which he thinks is a tokoloshe, strangle him at night. “The thing with charismatic churches is they don’t mix amadlozi and God. I grew up under amadlozi and now I have to do something I don’t believe in. “Some of these churches call our ancestors demons and I cannot turn my back on them because they are protecting me. “Yes, I need help. But being separated from them is a problem. “I’m just caught between a rock and a hard place,” he said. He said he turned to drinking to ease his pain as he cannot find the solution to his problem. And these spirits are against this. “They want me to stop drinking and smoking and live a clean life. “People who don’t understand what I’m going through judge me and think I’m crazy,” he said. The man said his family encouraged him to seek help from izangoma as nobody in the family has ever attended a bazalwane church. “I grew up appeasing my ancestors and have never gone to church. This is very difficult for me because it’s tormenting me and not my family. “It even led to his girlfriend dumping him. I went to a sangoma, who told me a pastor wants me in his church and wants to use me to get rich,” he told the People’s Paper. Gogo Magotweni Khoza said the man has to thwasa and he could mix the Bible and amadlozi. “If he doesn’t do that, his life is going to get worse and his ancestors may even bring his enemies closer to him because he doesn’t want to answer their calling. “Maybe people he says want to turn him into a zombie are being sent by his ancestors to spite him because he doesn’t want to thwasa,” said Khoza.