THE urgent bail application of Zandile Mafe, the man accused
of burning Parliament, is expected to be heard in the Cape Town Magistrates
Court on Saturday, 15 January. National Prosecuting Authority spokesman Eric
Ntabazalila said they have received a motion for an urgent bail application
from Mafe’s defence which includes advocate Dali Mpofu. “The NPA can confirm that it has received a notice of motion
for an urgent application for bail at the high court for Zandile Christmas Mafe
at 11am tomorrow,” said Ntabazalila. Mafe had already started his 30-day mental observation at
Valkenberg Psychiatric Hospital on Thursday after a bed was secured for him. This after the state argued on Tuesday that Mafe had been
diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia on the 3rd of January just after his arrest
and therefore needs a mental assessment. Mpofu argued that despite all that, Mafe was supposed to be
released on bail and his rights must be respected just like everyone else’s. Mafe faces some charges under Section 3 of the Protection of
Constitutional Democracy Against Terrorism and Related Activities Act 33 of
2004 which is a Schedule 6 offence. The other charges include arson, housebreaking, theft and
the possession of explosives. After the magistrate ruled that on Tuesday he must be taken
to Valkenberg to be assessed, he threatened to go on a hunger strike. “One thing that he wants this court and everyone to know, he
says that, if his bail application does not proceed, and he is not released
from custody, as from this moment he will embark on a hunger strike. He says
that whatever the consequences, he will do that,” Mpofu told the court on
Tuesday. Following the news about his bail application, Phumzile Jack
from Black People’s National Crisis Committee (BPNCC), an organisation that
involves political activists from different parties, said they will be at court
on Saturday to support Mafe. “Tomorrow we expect to have our brother out, we will be
there to support him. It must be noted that the state is incompetent, Hawks are
incompetent, they just want to use this man as a scapegoat of their
incompetence,” said Jack.