A TAXI boss was killed on Wednesday, 12 January. The 69-year-old taxi owner was gunned down at Gopalall
Hurbans Road in the Tongaat CBD, north of Durban. It is alleged that he was at a mechanic’s place in the
Tongaat CBD to fix one of his cars when suddenly men driving a white VW Polo
stopped and one of them opened fire on the taxi boss before they fled the
scene. The taxi boss was shot at several times by the suspects and
he died at the scene. Residents living near the area where the shooting happened
said they heard several gunshots. A resident, who asked not to be named, said she was going to
the shops when she suddenly heard the gunshots. “I was so terrified and then I heard that someone had died.
The man couldn’t have survived those shots as they were many. I think those
gunmen knew who they wanted because no one else was shot besides the taxi
boss,” she said. Another shopper said she decided to go back home after the
shooting as she was scared for her life. “I live in KwaMashu so I had gone to Tongaat to meet
someone. So after the shooting I decided to head back home as I was afraid,”
she said. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesman Prem Balram said
their members were dispatched to the scene at approximately 1:41pm. He said on arrival, the body of a man was discovered on the
ground. “He had been shot multiple times and was declared deceased
by paramedics from a private ambulance service. Several spent high calibre
cartridges were recovered on scene,” he said. He said the deceased was confirmed to be a taxi owner. “He was allegedly visiting a mechanic who was repairing one
of his vehicles when the incident occurred. The suspects allegedly sped off in
a white VW Polo towards Emona. However, this could not be immediately
confirmed,” he said. He said Reaction Officers conducted an extensive search for
the suspects. However, no arrests were made. KZN cops spokeswoman Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala
confirmed that a case of murder has been opened for investigation by Tongaat
SAPS. “It is alleged that on Wednesday at 1:50pm on Gopallal Road
in Tongaat, the body of a 69-year-old man was found with gunshot wounds to the
body. The suspects are still unknown and the motive for the killing is unknown.
The scene is still active,” said Gwala.