GREEDY landlords are making a lot of money and they’re doing everything in their power to protect their wealth and their lavish lifestyles. Disadvantaged residents at Angelo squatter camp in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni said whenever the municipality wanted to move residents, as they are on private land, the landlords blocked them because they’d lose money. Residents say they are oppressed by the landlords to the extent that when they speak out, they get death threats. “With the money they’re making, they live lavish lifestyles,” said one of the squatters. “They drive expensive cars. They have houses in the suburbs in Boksburg and their children go to expensive schools,” said another. A squatter said some landlords own more than 50 shacks and tenants pay between R400 and R600 in rent. “That landlord can make up to R30 000. We want a decent and a safe place to live. The conditions here in Angelo are not good.” She said they live in constant fear of being swallowed by sinkholes because of mine shafts in this area. “Ekurhuleni Municipality cannot develop this area because it is dangerous and it is private land. We want to be moved but there are people who sabotage every plan by the City of Ekurhuleni for their self-interest.” In 2015, Ekurhuleni Municipality erected temporary housing for the squatters to be moved to the land opposite the former Knights Hospital, now called Esidimeni, but some people blocked the move and the structures of over R20 million were vandalised. Concerned squatters said some of those individuals who blocked the move were the landlords. In December, Daily Sun ran a story about a resident from Angelo squatter camp who was almost buried alive after a sinkhole burst open in his shack while he was sleeping. The landlords refused to talk to the SunTeam. Ekurhuleni City manager spokesman Zweli Dlamini said people must not be afraid to approach the courts to exercise their rights. “The municipality tried to move people from Angelo squatter camp because they are on private land but we have always encountered resistance and we don’t know why.”