ALTHOUGH on paper it looks like an easy draw, Marumo Gallants coach Dan Malesela refuses to get carried away by their Nedbank Cup first round opposition. The holders were drawn against Santos in the last 32 round draw conducted in Joburg midweek. The Safa division-based opposition has nothing to lose and everything to gain in this match according to the outspoken mentor. Three Limpopo teams – Marumo, Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM), and the Venda Football Academy – will play their first round fixtures in the province. TTM will host to Golden Arrows, while the Academy will welcome African All-Stars in an all GladAfrica Championship contest. Baroka will visit Stellenbosch FC in the Winelands for their first round tie, while their local rivals will enjoy home ground advantage. Malesela, who guided TS Galaxy to the richest knockout cup competition on the continent in 2018, cannot wait to play in his favourite domestic cup. “People called to tell me that we got an easy draw. What is that? I won’t get carried away and think we have already booked a place in the knockout stages without kicking a ball. There is a danger about this match because you never know what to expect. They qualified for this stage of the competition, and they deserve to be here,” Malesela told SunSport yesterday. “I respect any team that came out of the hat. There is no such thing as easy matches,” said Malesela. Malesela (56) is not entertaining any thoughts of playing a second-string side against the minnows. He wants to continue his love affair with the Ke Yona Cup competition and go as far as he can. “I want to win the trophy. For some reason, I enjoy playing in this competition and feel that we have the team to go all the way this year. We respect this competition and fear no one,” The players reported back for duty on Sunday after the festive season recess, and Malesela is happy with their fitness level. They occupy 11th place on the DStv Premiership table with 19 points from 18 matches, and Malesela is optimistic about the season ahead. “We had a few great sessions and have lined up a couple of friendly matches. There is an air of optimism in the camp,” he added.