PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa has lambasted youth league branches who engage in social media insults other than growing branches. The president said there were some youth league branches who existed only on social media platforms issuing press statements peppered with insults and not constructive or growing membership. He was addressing the Peter Mokaba lecture from the top of a bakkie outside the Polokwane Council Chambers after the party’s youth turned up in numbers and forced the lecture being held outside and not inside the Jack Botes Hall as has been planned. Ramaphosa implored the youth league as it rebuilds itself must grow branches and attract educated and industrial inclined members and desist from unbecoming behavior. He added that these were the kind of quality leaders they should recruit. He challenged those who felt did not have the moral stamina to uphold the integrity of previous youth leaders such the first youth league leader Anton Lembede and Mokaba. "This thing must come to an end, particularly as you rebuild. As you rebuilding, you must not become paper branches. You must not become branches that we just hear about when they release press statements. Some of the statements are full of insults. They are so bitter, they are attacking left, right and center. "Our youth league is up in the ashes, it's not the youth league of Peter Mokaba. We know what happened in the last few years when our youth league collapsed. And I am so pleased to see that you have come in large numbers because it tells me that the spirit of the youth league is still in your chest," he said. Ramaphosa said as the league is remembering Mokaba, who he described as warrior who took up arms to fight the oppressive regime, they must revive the once radical league. Ramaphosa's delivery of the lecture threatened to be marred by violent scenes as youth league members demanded to force their way in after organizers announced they could not accommodate all of them as that would have violated lockdown regulations. That would have been the second lecture to be cancelled during the January 8 activities to be addressed by Ramaphosa following his walking out of the Lilian Ngoyi lecture at the Lebowakgomo Civic Center after lockdown regulations were said to have been violated. But sanity prevailed when it was agreed that the lecture would have to be delivered outside. It turned out the factional battles were at play as a faction associated to Ramaphosa were giving tags along factional lines. The RET linked faction staged a rebellious stance, resulting in a three hour standoff that caused the lecture to be delivered to be postponed from 2pm to 3.30pm. Ramaphosa ended up delivering the lecture at around 4pm. Two nyalas were deployed to the gates of the municipal offices as uncompromising faction stood their ground.