WHILE other schools welcomed pupils back for a new year, Tirelong Secondary School’s gates remained closed. Instead of attending lessons, pupils and parents barricaded the N4 on Wednesday 12 January, demanding that the education department fix the vandalised school. The school near Rustenburg, North West, has been repeatedly vandalised with the most recent incident being last month.  when criminals stole cables, taps, roofing, books, window frames, doors and kitchen utensils. Parent Clearance Molotsi said they have been asking the department to build a proper school for over two years. “We will not allow relocation to other schools. The department must provide mobile classrooms,” he said. Department spokesman Elias Malindi said the school was not in a condition to be opened. “The school does not have running water or electricity,” he said. He said some parents were denying pupils’ right to education by opposing the department’s proposal to relocate pupils to other schools.  Education MEC Mmaphefo Matsemela said the department had arranged with nearby schools to accommodate pupils until a permanent solution was found. “Parents will not pay a cent for uniforms or transport. The department will provide transport,” she said. Meanwhile in Gauteng, pupils at Rephafogile Secondary School in Lusaka, Mamelodi, Tshwane, had a difficult time getting into their school as a nearby stream flooded overnight. Stressed pupils said they had to take off their shoes to wade through the water or walk to a bridge 45 minutes away. Tshegofatso Madithapa (14) said: “This river is a nightmare for us and our parents.” “Taking off and putting on our shoes makes us late for school,” she said. Tumelo Mathebula (17) said something needed to be done before someone drowned. Resident Lazarus Phiri (57) said he feared someone would be swept away by the water. City of Tshwane spokesman, Lindela Mashego, said: “Unfortunately, the informal settlement is on a floodplain, making it difficult to help. The city is assessing what can be done.”