SUNDAY, 23 January, marked the second anniversary of the unfortunate and tragic accident of Cessna ZS-CAR Aircraft that claimed the lives of Captain Thabiso Tolo, first officer Tebogo Lekalakala and flight inspector Gugu Mnguni. On Tuesday, 25 January, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula released the investigation report into the crash. Speaking from his department’s offices in Tshwane, the minister said the initial investigation was conducted by the Accident and Incident Investigation Division (AIID), a functionally independent unit reporting to him, but operationally attached to the South African Civil Aviation Authority (Sacaa). Mbalula said following engagements with the families, who expressed discomfort with the proximity of the AIID to Sacaa and expressed preference for an independent investigation, he then issued an order to this effect. “We then appointed the Ethiopian Accident Investigation Bureau, who undertook the investigation,” he said. He said in terms of Annex 13 of the Chicago Convention, the sole purpose of the investigation was the prevention of accidents and not to apportion blame or liability. He said he was equally bound by the same convention, to which South Africa is a signatory and have domesticated its provisions, to release the report. Part of the investigation report revealed that Sacaa contravened a slew of its own aviation regulations before the crash. Another serious finding against the authority was that the aircraft was not maintained in accordance with the requirements of annual inspections. The certificate of airworthiness was thus rendered invalid. According to the report, the aircraft experienced three incidents before the fatal accident during which an oil smell and smoke were detected in the cockpit. Mbalula said on Sunday, he met the Tolo, Lekalakala and Mnguni families and handed over the final report which had been released to them by the Ethiopian Investigation Bureau. Mbalula extended his apologies to the families for the delay in finalising the report. He said the death of any kind brings sorrow, anguish and unanswered questions and many of them battle to find closure as those they lost are forever lingering in their memories. “I extend my appreciation to the Ethiopian Minister of Transport and Logistics, Dagmawit Moges, for graciously accepting our request for the Ethiopian Accident Investigation Bureau to conduct an independent investigation under challenging Covid-19 conditions,” he said. Mbalula said with the final report now released, other parties may choose to appeal to the minister and have 60 days from the date of the report to do so. “As the minister, I am enjoined to observe the due process and allow that period to lapse before pronouncing myself on the content of the report,” he said.