PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa has declared dismantling ANC factions his mission as he gears himself up to bid for a second term. He was meeting traditional leaders at Mokopane in Limpopo before the party’s 8 January celebrations. The president is said to be considering launching his campaign for a second term during these activities, even though his faction has been losing regional confidence. That plan got a boost on Wednesday, 6 January when a Sekhukhune regional secretary endorsed him for a second term, despite the region being won by the RET faction. Addressing traditional leaders in Mokopane, Ramaphosa said factions in the ANC must come to an end. He said other traditional leaders had told him they were having groupings within Contralesa, who were fighting each other. “We have the same sickness as the ANC. Now I am like the archbishop in the ANC, acting against the factions. I am the big witch doctor and I am saying these factions must end, so we can work together. Even though you don’t like the person, hold them by their hand and say we have been brought together by the organisation.” Day two of meeting traditional leaders went smoothly for Ramaphosa, who told Mokopane leaders that, unlike in Sekhukhune, where he was told he was a liar. The leaders though told him of their disappointment about the way the ANC has gone. Bishop Edward Mahlakgane told Ramaphosa how his Thuma Mina project was failing. “Honourable president and honourable premier, if you drive around here in town, you will be ashamed. We don’t see Thuma Mina here.” He told Ramaphosa the ANC has lost its way and was no longer the movement that cared for the people. He spoke of the rampant and brazen corruption, so visible they could not hide it anymore. Mahlakgane spoke of how the ANC no longer consulted with the clergy and traditional leaders, yet these were the core people who helped to found the organisation. Traditional leaders who also addressed Ramaphosa complained about poor service delivery, lack of water and roads, as well as unfinished projects in their communities. Ramaphosa was also forced to walk out of an ANC Women’s League event at Lebowakgomo Civic Centre after lockdown regulations had been violated. He has been warmly welcomed by the league, led by leadership aligned to the RET faction, as they sang unity songs. He had just sat down when league president Bathabile Dlamini whispered in his ear. Shortly after that, Ramaphosa stood up and walked out. League deputy president Sisi Ntombela announced he had to leave because lockdown protocol had been violated and they’d arrange another date for the lecture.