 The Gauteng
North High Court in Tshwane has ruled that the matric results may be published. This comes
after Civil rights organization AfriForum, Maroela Media, and Anlé Spies a 2021
matriculant, made an urgent application in court to oppose the Department of
Basic Education decision not to publish the 2021 Matric Results in the
newspapers. The
Application was heard on Tuesday, and the Basic Education department decided
not to oppose it. Initially,
the department announced that matric exam results will no longer be published
on media platforms, in line with the recently introduced Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA). In a
statement, the department said that publishing personal information online
would be a contravention of the Act. But
according to Natasha Venter, Manager for Education Rights at AfriForum, the
public excitement that accompanies the publication of matric results in the
media serves as motivation for future matriculants. She said to
water down the magnitude of the occasion, will eventually undermine the pursuit
of excellence in education. Venter
welcomed the court ruling by Judge Millar that granted the organisation’s order
unchanged. "The
organisation is confident that the matric results can be published on Thursday
20 January and that former matriculants will be able to get their results in
the newspapers and on media platforms." “It is in
the public interest that this information is shared on public platforms and
that is one of the reasons why we brought this application," she said. She added
that they are delighted that the court agreed with them in this argument. In a
statement, Basic Education spokesman, Elijah Mhlanga, said that in handling the
matter the Department is guided by the need to comply with all the legal
obligations but in the final analysis the Constitution commands the DBE to act
in the best interest of the learner. He said in
a quest to strike this delicate balance of complying with POPIA and act in the
best interest of the learner, the Department has been engaged with several role
players including the Information Regulator and the South African National
Editors Forum (SANEF). "In
view of the latest developments with regards to the release of the 2021 Matric
Results and the
impending litigation, the Department has decided that it will abide by the
decision of the Court. "The
Department has communicated its position to stakeholders it has engaged
including SANEF and other parties," he said. 