MKHULU Thomas Sebanda, who celebrated his 103rd birthday in Tsakane, Mamelodi East in Tshwane on 16 January, has died. Mkhulu died at home on Sunday, 23 January at about 5pm and was buried on Saturday, 29 January at Mamelodi East cemetery. Daily Sun published the story on 20 January, headlined: “He’s a jolly good fellow.” According to the family, he died of old age. He was a member of Evangelical Lutheran Church St Paul’s Parish since 1970 until his death, and was described by his family as someone who loved people and valued education. St Paul’s in Mamelodi East led the funeral with songs. Madala’s son George Sebanda (59) said it was painful to lose a father, but he had lived long and died because of old age. “We all loved him and I lived with him for many years. We even celebrated with him his last 103 years’ birthday at home, even though his body was weak.” George described his father as the pillar in the family who always encouraged them to take education seriously. “We are very happy for his long life. My father loved church but because of his age, he was no longer attending the services,” he said. The church would visit mkhulu at his home to give him the holy communion. During his funeral, people described him as a loving and caring person. They said he’s left a gap behind. George said it’s sad his father has died, as he was hoping after taking a pension in October to spend quality time with him and buy him more cakes and sweets. Reverend Dr Paledi Magopa said: “Sebanda held to his faith for 52 years. He did not hold on to the word of people but to the faith of God. “God of Sebanda that has carried on with him for many years will sustain you. These things we see happening today pull our spirit down. When one is old, we don’t want him to die but we wish him many more years. We still value and love him even if he lived many more years, even another 103.” The madala had 10 children, five sons and five daughters, 12 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. He is survived by his three sons and two daughters.