POLITICAL scoring, gimmicks, populist and irresponsible, theatrics or irrational nitpicking, but fact remains: someone must say something, and it’s a reality? Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa’s attack on the Econic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) planned “picket” march at his department’s offices was uncalled for and he needed to have been guided properly. The tone of his reaction was more violent than when he could have waited for the Red Berets and accept their memorandum and dealt with it thereafter. This against the picket must be misled into unrealistic world we live in, and political affiliation shouldn’t divert their attention from the truth. Others suggest the Red Berets should be directing their fight to Winchester Street in Parktown, where PSL offices are situated, and Safa’s headquarters in Nasrec. The Gazetted policy that 2 000 fans must return to stadiums was only tested twice by the league, and that made little to no impact, even TV cameras couldn’t capture the spectators in a 90 000-plus stadium. Their voices were also unheard on our TVs. But hey, President Cyril Ramaphosa has allowed for 50% capacity of outside venues must be interpreted as such. And for Mthethwa to come out guns blazing was just uncalled for. Mthethwa carries the weight of approaching the Health Minister Dr Joe Phaahla, and ask for an increased number of spectators at football stadiums. Grandstanding with populist statements makes Mthethwa no different to the same EFF he’s attacking. To me, the PSL is also at fault for not pursuing this matter enough, and again our sister company DStv, official league and broadcast sponsor, are taking advantage of the situation and enjoying the number of viewership on SuperSportTV. In fact, the fact that other stadiums management companies and clubs rely heavily on gate takings, I think that is something that they would like to happen as early as Mthethwa could sneeze. The minister is afraid of being tinkled in the nose by the EFF. PHEW! It has been long! I’ve seen a group of these supporters’ club holding their meeting this past weekend, and it saddened me that they’re still passionate but the minister doesn’t give a damn. Anyway, Mthethwa is not a sports person, it was just imposed on him. He’s an arts and culture person, and his statement is tantamount to a gimmick on its own. Alright, why is our honourable minister being reactive instead of being proactive on such matters that he should be leading the way? It’s because he doesn’t understand its importance, and his advisors are just “sleepists” as well, like Mbuyiseni Ndlozi once told an honourable minister in the parliamentary house. I don’t care who says what, but I am with anyone who is advocating for the return to stadiums, such as rugby and cricket. Footballers are not stupid, they’re also South Africans and deserve the same rights as anyone else. And they are not palookas when it comes to Covid-19. They know and follow all protocols. Then why shun them when they did little to misbehave during political rallies and voting in by-elections? So, Mthethwa and his cronies must stop treating footballers as lame, and take notice of the seriousness this march is all about.