SHOW us your Thuma Mina, Mr President that you glowingly spoke about, because our roads are damaged and crime is rampant! This was the charge made to President Cyril Ramaphosa by Bishop Edward Mahlakgane during a meeting between the president and traditional leaders at Oasis Hotel, Mokopane in Limpopo on Thursday, 6 January. Mahlakgane was referring to Ramaphosa’s rallying cry during his maiden State of the Nation Address, when he promised changes on how his new administration was going to do things. Mahlakgane said it was shameful to be even driving around in town, let alone in the kasi Makhwelereng, where roads were non-existent due to potholes. “Honourable president and honourable premier, if you can drive around here in town, you will be ashamed. “You made a very strong statement when you said ‘Thuma Mina’. We don’t see Thuma Mina here.” The bishop told Ramaphosa the ANC has lost its way and was no longer the movement that cared for the people. He spoke of the brazen corruption, which he said was so visible they could not hide it anymore. “Every time you hide it, it raises its ugly head,” Mahlakgane spoke of how the ANC no longer consulted with the clergy and traditional leaders, yet these were the core people who helped to found the organisation. “The only time you come to us is during the elections and even then you’re coming to preach to us,” he said. Traditional leaders who also addressed Ramaphosa during the meeting complained about poor service delivery and lack of water and roads, as well as of projects in their communities that weren’t completed. Ramaphosa said he’d noted their concerns and committed that they’d be attended to. However, he admitted perhaps he hadn’t articulated his Thuma Mina concept well when he introduced it, saying he’d meant it was all hands on deck. Ramaphosa said in his interactions with other traditional leaders, he’s been hearing similar concerns. He thanked the leaders for a frank, yet honest engagement and pointed out it was unlike his meetings with other leaders in Sekhukhune, where he was called a liar to his face.