THE late Emalahleni mayor Linah Malatjie and her husband, Sepetlele, were laid to rest at Emalahleni Cemetery on Sunday, 9 January. The couple died in a horrific car crash on the R544 between KwaMhlanga and Emalahleni on Monday, 3 January. They were coming back from an event in KwaMhlanga. Speakers described the mayor as a dedicated and visionary leader, and said she and her husband encouraged peace in the community. Nkangala regional chairman Speedy Mashilo said Linah left a very big void in the community of Emalahleni. He said they have established the Linah Malatjie Education Fund. “Linah Malatjie was a very dedicated comrade who served the people with dignity. She was a selfless leader who worked very hard to develop the community. As a region we have been hit hard by her death,” he said. Family member Mashegoana Malatjie said Sepetlele was an honourable man. “He always encouraged us to pray. Both of them showed great love to us. “Prayer was always a priority in everything we did,” he said. Grandkids Lethabo and Tshegofatso said their grandparents taught them love and respect. “Nothing could have prepared us for this situation. Our grandparents were our best friends,” they said. Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtsweni-Tsipane said Mala Mall in Emalahleni will be renamed after the late mayor. She said an academic hospital, still to be built, will also be named after her. “She served the community with dignity and respect. We have lost a true soldier and servant of the people,” said the premier. ANC Women’s League President, Bathabile Dlamini, said Linah was a very strong leader. She said she was very decisive and believed in the ANC. ANC national chairman, Gwede Mantashe, said Linah was a very patient and down to earth leader. “She was a teacher who taught me about the area as I spent many years here. She was a rare calibre of a person and we must respect her now and beyond,” he said. The funeral was graced by top ANC officials, including Ronald Lamola, David Mahlobo, Thabang Makwetla, Lindiwe Sisulu, Reginah Mhaule, Dikeledi Magadzi, Thembi Nkadimeng, Ace Magashule, and Candith Mashego-Dlamini.