FORMER Fifa president, Sepp Blatter, has slammed incumbent Gianni Infantino accusing him of plotting to move Fifa headquarters from Zurich, Switzerland to Paris in France. Blatter, the first Fifa president to recognise Africa by bringing the World Cup to South Africa in 2010, vented on social media on Tuesday, making unsubstitiated allegations. "Gianni Infantino moving to Qatar doesn't surprise me," he reacted to reports that Infantino has relocated to Doha, Qatar for this year's World Cup in the Gulf City in October. "Apparently he doesn't feel comfortable in Switzerland. He wants to move Fifa's headquarters to Paris and has the intention of outsourcing part of the administration to the USA," Blatter wrote on Twitter to a lot of criticism. Gianni Infantino moving to Qatar doesn't surprise me. Apparently he doesn't feel comfortable in Switzerland. He wants to move FIFA's headquarters to Paris and has the intention of outsourcing part of the administration to the USA. #FIFA #Qatar #Paris #NewYork #LeavingZurich "In my opinion, this is a bad development. Because Fifa came to Zurich in 1932 because of the political and economic stability. Was I also planing a change of residence when I was president of Fifa? No! I would never change my domicile according with the World Cups." The SwissInfo reports that a year before the start of the football World Cup in Qatar, Infantino has decided to rent a house in the Gulf state that is due to host the tournament, "it has been confirmed". In my opinion, this is a bad development. Because FIFA came to Zurich in 1932 because of the political and economic stability. Was I also planing a change of residence when I was President of FIFA? No! I would never change my domicile according with the World Cups. #Fifa #Qatar  They Switzerland's online publication quotes an investigation published by the SonntagsBlick newspaper. "Fifa has always denied rumours of Infantino's move to Qatar but was forced to admit it was the case following the SonntagsBlick investigation," the publication reveals. "The organisation claims that its president continues to work at its headquarters in Zurich and pay taxes in Switzerland. It told SonntagsBlick that Infantino spends half of his working time in Doha and that the house in the Qatari capital allows him to spend a lot of time with his family. However, according to SonntagsBlick, employees have confirmed that Infantino is rarely present in Zurich. "Infantino defended his move to Doha in the paper saying that the World Cup, which is taking place from 21 November to 18 December, would be a historic event for the region and Fifa and that it was worth the greatest effort." It added that Fifa told them "it was necessary for Infantino to be in Doha regularly to help organise the tournament".