Mbali Hlophe's department of sports, arts, culture and recreation has profusely denied allegations made by the Democratic Alliance (DA) regarding the R7 million allegedly spent on organising the annual "three-hour" Gauteng Sport Awards (GSA). In a response statement, the department argues the "untruths contained in the DA statement... and the relief to artists and athletes". The department says the DA opted to spend time engaging in gossip "instead of being productive". The DA is holding Gauteng MEC for sports, Hlophe, accountable for an alleged R7 million used to organise the "three-hour" Gauteng Sport Awards (GSA) last year. According to the party's shadow MEC for Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation (SACR), Kingsol Chabalala MPL, they will "not hesitate to hold MEC Hlophe to account for the department funds to be allocated according to priorities and for the benefit of all our residents, not a few individuals who have access to the department tenders". "We also demand a breakdown of how R7 million was spent on this event considering that it was an in-door event and there is a limitation in terms of the number of people who can attend such events due to Covid-19 regulations," asked the party in a statement on Tuesday. However, Hlophe's department reckons the DA's allegations do not hold water: "We had hoped that such criticism would be constructive based on facts instead of being dependent on gossip."In point format based on the DA's concerns, the department liable to respond through the below "facts": 1. LIE: Claim the Department has not spent on Covid-19 relief for artists and athletes and should have used the alleged R7 million towards relief. FACT: The Department has to date spent R19,6m on Cover-19 Covid relief, of which close to 3000 artists and athletes have benefited. 2. LIE: Claim that the Department spent R7m for the Gauteng Sports Awards. FACT: The DA mischievously does not indicate that the Department had budgeted R9m for the Sports Awards this financial year, but spent R6,9m instead. 3. LIE: Claim the Department spent large amounts on hiring venues for the Gauteng Sports Awards. FACT: The big cost drivers for the event was the creative industry; which includes all technical expertise to host the event: these are individuals who work behind the scenes to make the event a success. Further including mainstream and development artists such as Oskido, Kabza de Small, Kamo Mphela, AKA, Costa Tich, Brenda Mtambo, Young Stunna, Lulo Cafe, Benny Chill, African Chill, Smangori Dancers, City Boyz, Bayeza Marimba, and Tembisa Red Devil’s our pantsula dancers from Tembisa now flying our flag high internationally. Additionally, costs also went to the price money for the winning athletes, the car given away as part of the competition and towards the live production by SABC1. 4. LIE: Claim the Department has since the 2012/2013 financial year to the 2020/2021 financial year, spent over R61 million on this annual event. FACT: The Department questions where the DA has received its numbers that tally to this amount. As for example the Department did not spent R9,5m on the Awards in 2019/2020 as alleged in the statement.  