FRICTION is brewing at Maritzburg United over the future of the coach Ernst Middendorp. The club’s management is divided on what decision to take over Middendorp, after poor results before the season went to recess in December. Middendorp, who returned to join the club in November 2020, held a meeting with the management to map the way forward. However, the management is divided as some want him to stay and others want him gone. Last December, SunSport confirmed that Middendorp’s days were numbered following a string of poor results. The loss to Kaizer Chiefs, Middendorp’s former club, was 10 games without a win since October against TS Galaxy. This has led to the 63-year-old coach faxing an axe. “The club is divided on the future of Middendorp. The club held a meeting on Thursday and the management was split. Others want him to go and others say he must stay,” said the mole. What has exacerbated the whole thing to be mutiny in the camp is that Middendorp has been left unhappy at the club selling Bongokuhle Hlongwane in the middle of the season. Middendorp is rumoured to have not been told about the striker’s imminent departure, as he has played a central role in the side, in a supporting role to French-born striker Amadou Soukouna. Hlongwane joined Major League side Minnesota United in the USA on Wednesday. Following the loss to Chiefs, Maritzburg dropped to the 13 on the DStv Premiership table with 15 points after 18 games. What is the most concerning part for Maritzburg is that, in the last three matches where they have lost two two and drew one, they didn’t score. In the game against Chiefs, Middendorp said he would sit down with the club to find which direction they want to take, revealing that he needed to get players in. He also confirmed he was keen to remain in the job. However, the division was expected to happen within the management. When Middendorp joined on a three-year deal to replace Eric Tinkler two years ago, Maritzburg were fighting for survival as they were at the bottom with zero points after five matches. However, the German-born coach, in his fourth stint with the club, assured the club management that he will rescue the club, as he did so in the 2015-16 season. But by March, Maritzburg had improved their standing and ended up finishing position 13, the position they are occupying right now. The departure of striker Thabiso Kutumela to Mamelodi Sundowns at the beginning of the season hurt them dearly, as the former Orlando Pirates striker was their main man last season, scoring 12 goals to finish as the third top scorer. Middendorp, during the off season, was frequently asked how they will replace a quality striker like Kutumela, but the club striker Soukouna and Ghanaian striker Richard Zumah, but the former has done better than the latter.