THREE families from New Eersterust in Hammanskraal, Tshwane received newly-built houses on Monday, 10 January. The houses were handed over by Chippa Holdings and the Gauteng Department of Human Settlements. This after some of the homes had burnt down due to power surges. Another family lived in a one-room shack, which collapsed as it was built on a wetland. Chippa Holdings chairman, Siviwe “Chippa” Mpengesi, , which owns Chippa United FC, said he was asked by community leaders to help the families. He said he helped without any hesitation because this was not his first time helping in Hammanskraal. “We have people here who have businesses in waste management because of the training we did here five years ago,” he said. Chippa said the houses were built by community members and not a construction company, as Chippa Holdings had trained them. He said they also used recycled material to save costs and still do a quality job. “These houses mark 20 houses that I have built across the country. “These projects are dear to me because I know how it feels to live in a shack. I also grew up in a shack and it’s not nice,” he said. Chippa pleaded with the families to take care of the houses and not sell them. He also said he would help the families with a yearly gift of groceries. “We are going to give them groceries worth R2 000 because that’s a decent way to live,” he said. One of the beneficiaries, Monica Ngoepe (35) was lost for words. “I’m so happy I don’t know what to say, this a dream come true. “I thought I would live in a shack for the rest of my life. May God bless Chippa with many more so they can continue to bless many more families,” she said. Human Settlements Human Settlements MEC Lebogang Maile thanked Chippa for giving back to the community. He said it was honourable for Chippa to give back, not just in his home town. or province, but all over Mzansi. “You come from Cape Town yet you are able to give back where there’s a need.” Maile also called for residents to be happy for each other. “We need to be happy for one another even though we know that we have families that also need houses,” he said.