Chané Nel, who scooped nine distinctions, can't believe that she's the best pupil in the Free State. Nel, who intends studying medicine at Stellenbosch University, said what drove her to success was giving the examinations her all. She passed English and Afrikaans as home languages and German as a second additional language at Oranje Meisieskool. "I wanted to reach my full potential. I had a good support structure at home. "My family ensured that I get enough rest before and during the examinations. I can't believe that I am the top matriculant in the province. "Being the top performer has motivated me to become a better person in life. I am happy that I have managed to make it under the difficult circumstances we went through as a country," she said. Tlotliso Mofokeng obtained the number two position in the province. Mofokeng, who will be study mechanical engineering at the University of Cape Town, obtained 100% in Mathematics and Physical Sciences. The jubilant Mofokeng dedicated his success to his family, teachers and community in Qwaqwa. "I want to thank my teachers at Mookodi Senior Secondary School who encouraged me to study hard. If it were not for them, I would not have obtained seven distinctions. "I am happy that I have passed all my subjects with distinctions. It is an unbelievable achievement. I never thought anyone in my family would achieve such beautiful results," Mofokeng said. Maths, said Mofokeng, was his best subject. "I have loved Maths from an early age. Mathematics is my strength. I am raised by a single parent. I am staying with my father and other siblings. He is always at work, ensuring there is food on the table. "My brothers played a vital role in my examinations. They assisted me where I was lacking. I want to advise our successors to focus on their books. They must reduce the time they spend with friends," said Mofokeng. Tsebo Molatodi from Winburg Combined School was the third-best matriculant in the Free State. Molatodi dedicated his success to the extra hours he put into his school work. "I started preparing at Grade 8. I always told myself that I would be among the top 100 pupils in the country. I spent most of my time on my books. My family understood the importance of matric and allowed me to spend time alone studying without disturbance. "My achievement humbles me. I have made history in my school. My grandmother and parents are happy with my achievement. I am battling to sleep at night when I look at what I had reached," Molatodi said. Molatodi is headed to Wits University to study actuarial sciences. News24