IF relegation haunted TS Galaxy are to avoid the dreaded axe hovering above their heads, their experienced players need to raise their hands soon, warned their Nigerian striker Augustine Kwem. He is hopeful that his side can pull off the great escape, but he insists that players who’ve seen and done it all before will need to stand up and guide the rest of the team. The Rockets are facing the drop back down to the GladAfrica Championship as they languish at the foot of the DStv Premiership table with a mere 13 points from 17 matches. They are level with Baroka FC, who have also been struggling this season with Kgoloko Thobejane doing his best to salvage what has been a below par season for the Ga-Mphahlele outfit. For Galaxy, German tactician Sead Ramovi is the man tasked with performing the rescue act as they look to survive their second season in the top flight. Kwem, brought in from Chippa United at the beginning of the season, is yet to hit his straps and has challenged himself, as well as the rest of the experienced players in the team, to lead the rescue mission. “The key to surviving such a situation is having your experienced players stepping up and leading by example,” said Kwem. “It’s a bit of a reality check to find ourselves in this position on the log. We have to get back to winning ways as soon as the season resumes. “It’s important that we keep it tight at the back because we are conceding a lot of goals. We are scoring but we are also conceding a lot so we need to fix that.” Kwem, who recently returned from injury, is eager to contribute towards getting the Mpumalanga outfit off the bottom of the log. The 24-year-old centre forward has only featured four times for the Rockets this season, and is yet to find the back of the net. “It’s been emotional because this was my first serious injury. I have only had little knocks at Chippa where I only needed to rest for a few days then come back,” added Kwem. “But I thank God that the physios have helped me recover well, and I’m ready to return and help the team whenever I am given the opportunity.”