Mamelodi Sundowns have assured Teboho Mokoena game time with the Brazilians and the player has now agreed to join them on a long-term contract. As first reported by SunSport last week, initially, Mokoena was reluctant to join Sundowns after the Brazilian tabled a offer for him and also Belgium side RSC Anderlecht. Sundowns offered R25 million to SuperSport and while that of Anderlecht’s Vincent Kompany coached club was R20 million, which is R5m less. Mokoena, who turned 25 on Monday, was keen to go abroad to join Anderlecht instead of Sundowns, because he felt he wouldn't play at Sundowns due to the competition in the midfield and going abroad was his preference. However, Sundowns president Patrice Motsepe apparently spoke to the player from Cameroon and SuperSport United CEO Stan Matthews also convinced Mokoena to sign what is believed to be a five-year deal with Sundowns, our sources said. “The boy has been assured of game time by Sundowns,” said an insider. “The chairman of Sundowns spoke to him over the phone and SuperSport CEO also spoke to him at length to join Sundowns, that’s how they were able to convince him. “So Anderlecht lost out and again they couldn’t increase their fee to match that of Sundowns.” Mokoena will join quite a long list of players who have joined Sundowns from cross city rivals SuperSport United. These players are Katlego Mphela, Anthony Laffor, Elias Pelembe, Sboniso Gaxa, Lungisani Ndlela, Calvin Marlin, Mame Niang, Tebogo Langerman, Aubrey Modiba, Reyard Pieterse, Jeremy Brockie and Grant Kekana. The Bafana Bafana star will become the third signing of Sundowns in this transfer window, after the 14-time league winners snatched Surprise Ralani from Cape Town City and Erwin Mario Saavedra from Bolivar in Bolivia Premier League. Two former Mamelodi Sundowns players believe it would be best for SuperSport United midfielder Teboho Mokoena to go abroad at this stage of his career. ???#SLSiya Full story: https://t.co/v4pOygUmhN pic.twitter.com/HQuSof0XlO 