AMAZULU coach Benni McCarthy says his preferred signing in this January transfer window was Argentinean attacking midfielder, Facundo Juarez. But McCarthy couldn’t get Juarez and said if anyone wants to know why the club couldn’t sign him, they must ask Usuthu president Sandile Zungu. However, Zungu said the reason they didn’t sign Juarez was because the foreign slot at the club has been occupied, and that the player is currently injured. Juarez is a free agent after his contract expired last month at Argentine outfit Club Atletico Mitre. Instead, Usuthu signed unknown striker Abraham Majok, who was confirmed last Thursday alongside Abbubaker Mobara from Cape Town City. Majok holds dual citizenship with South Sudan and Australia. McCarthy said Juarez was going to offer his side both an attacking midfield and a striker options. The ambitious Usuthu coach said if they had signed him, they would have been able to challenge in the DStv Premiership and also in the Caf Champions League group stages, which resume next week. “That was my desired player and a player I think holds all the keys to this team,” said McCarthy. “He has football intelligence. He knows what it means to be a playmaker, but also what it means to be a goal scorer. He’s got everything in his locker. “Mamelodi Sundowns are the only team that possesses those types of players such as Gaston Sirino, Themba Zwane and Neo Maema. If you have a playmaker who plays in the team from deep but he can get you between five and 10 goals and creates goals for the strikers, which team wouldn’t want to have that kind of player? “ It was a player whom we identified, but unfortunately we just hit the brick wall.” McCarthy and Zungu’s relationship seems to be on the rocks, as Usuthu management are not delivering on McCarthy’s requests. McCarthy, when he was appointed by Usuthu, said he wanted to challenge Sundowns, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates on the field and also in the transfer market. But he is not getting everything he wants. McCarthy has also been left angry by the club for not tying down Siyethemba Sithebe. The player will leave the club in June to join Chiefs. ” “ AMAZULU coach Benni McCarthy says his preferred signing in this January transfer window was Argentinean attacking midfielder, Facundo Juarez. But McCarthy couldn’t get Juarez and said if anyone wants to know why the club couldn’t sign him, they must ask Usuthu president Sandile Zungu. However, Zungu said the reason they didn’t sign Juarez was because the foreign slot at the club has been occupied, and that the player is currently injured. Juarez is a free agent after his contract expired last month at Argentine outfit Club Atletico Mitre. Instead, Usuthu signed unknown striker Abraham Majok, who was confirmed last Thursday alongside Abbubaker Mobara from Cape Town City. Majok holds dual citizenship with South Sudan and Australia. McCarthy said Juarez was going to offer his side both an attacking midfield and a striker options. The ambitious Usuthu coach said if they had signed him, they would have been able to challenge in the DStv Premiership and also in the Caf Champions League group stages, which resume next week. “That was my desired player and a player I think holds all the keys to this team,” said McCarthy. “He has football intelligence. He knows what it means to be a playmaker, but also what it means to be a goal scorer. He’s got everything in his locker. “Mamelodi Sundowns are the only team that possesses those types of players such as Gaston Sirino, Themba Zwane and Neo Maema. If you have a playmaker who plays in the team from deep but he can get you between five and 10 goals and creates goals for the strikers, which team wouldn’t want to have that kind of player? “ It was a player whom we identified, but unfortunately we just hit the brick wall.” McCarthy and Zungu’s relationship seems to be on the rocks, as Usuthu management are not delivering on McCarthy’s requests. McCarthy, when he was appointed by Usuthu, said he wanted to challenge Sundowns, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates on the field and also in the transfer market. But he is not getting everything he wants. McCarthy has also been left angry by the club for not tying down Siyethemba Sithebe. The player will leave the club in June to join Chiefs.