CHIPPA United winger, Thulani Mini, said it is too early to write them off and start regarding Orlando Pirates as the runaway DStv Diski Challenge title favourites. The Buccaneers are enjoying an eight match winning streak, a record in the Diski Challenge. Pirates are at the top with 33 points from 13 games. They have opened a six point gap between them and second placed Stellenbosch FC, who have 27 points from the same number of games. Chippa are in third place with 25 points – eight points behind high flying Pirates. But the ambitious Mini said it is still premature to regard Pirates as champions because there is still a long way to go. “The journey is still long. There’s no way that we cannot catch up with Pirates in the 17 games that we are left with,” a confident Mini said. “We did not do well in our last match and that is no secret. But we still believe Pirates are not home and dry, yet. They are still going to play Stellenbosch and visit us. So we will handle them and close the gap. At the moment they are doing well but they will still make mistakes and we will pounce.” Under coach Daine Klate, Chippa have been one of the most improved teams this season. This weekend, the Diski Challenge returns with festivals in KwaZulu-Natal and Gqeberha. The Chilli Boys are looking at returning to winning ways, as they host Kaizer Chiefs on Sunday at Wolfson Stadium (12.30pm). Said Mini: “We have already lost four times this season, so we can’t afford any slip ups now. “Last week we undermined (Golden) Arrows and we lost (3-1). We have to beat Chiefs.” Chiefs’ Vela Khumalo admitted it would be a tricky game for them as they will be without Mduduzi Shabalala, Bontle Molefe and Aden McCarthy, who have been vital for them. “Mdu is not available (selected for Compact Cup), Bontle is joining the first team, Aden is not with the team as well, but it will be a good challenge for those who will play,” Khumalo told SunSport. Stellenbosch, who will be up against Marumo Gallants on Saturday at Peter Mokaba Stadium, will be hoping to get back to winning ways after losing 1-0 to Sekhukhune United last weekend.