South African Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, has
advised President Cyril Ramaphosa, that when allocating responsibilities to
Ministers in terms of section 91(2) of the Constitution, to remind Ministers of
their constitutional responsibilities and in particular the Executive Ethics
Code. She added that Ramaphosa must arrange a workshop to inform
Ministers on the provisions of the Executive Ethics Code to avoid violations of
the Code. She said her office is willing to assist him in that regard. Mkhwebane said this during a media briefing at her offices
in Tshwane on Monday. She and her Deputy, Kholeka Gcaleka, were releasing nine
investigation reports finalised by their offices. One of the reports she released, was the investigation
against former Minister of Water and Sanitation, Nomvula Mokonyane. She said the investigation followed a complaint lodged by
EFF’s Floyd Shivambu in March 2018. "He alleged that Mokonyane, in her former capacity as
Minister misled Parliament on the matter relating to the position of the Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) at Magalies Water. "Our investigation focused on whether the former
Minister willfully misled the National Assembly and we found that the allegation that Ms Mokonyane
wilfully misled the National Assembly is unsubstantiated," she said. Mkhwebane said they also investigated allegations of
irregular implementation of the PUTCO Bus contract by the Gauteng Department of
Roads and Transport (GDRT). She said the investigation followed a memorandum of
complaints received on 01 October 2022 from Sam Masango, who was acting on
behalf of the Moloto Corridor Concerned Residents (MCCR). She said some of the complaints were that Masango alleged
undue delay by the National Department of Transport (NDoT) to implement the
Moloto Rail Development Corridor Project (the MRDCP) which entails the building
of the railway line that would run between the Gauteng and Mpumalanga
Provinces. She said the alleged misappropriation of public funds
through feasibility studies conducted pertaining to the MRDCP by the NDoT and
Mpumalanga Department of Transport and Public Works (MPUDoT). "The investigation revealed that the GDRT has
contravened section 41(3) of the National Land Transport Act (NLTA) by extending the Contract
IC52/97 beyond a period of 12 years. "The investigation also revealed that the GDRT
contravened section 41(5) of the NLTA, section 38(1)(c) of the PFMA and
relevant provisions of the National Treasury Regulations and Instruction Notes
by failing to ensure that timeous steps were taken before the expiry of Contract
IC52/97 to ensure that, services are procured through a competitive bidding
process to ensure continuous service delivery to the passengers," she
said. She said to remedy this improper conduct and
maladministration, the MEC for Roads and Transport must take note of the final report and monitor
compliance regarding the contract management, procurement of goods and services and extension
of contracts as regulated in section 217 of the Constitution. In Mkhwebane's report allegations against the former Gauteng
MEC for Economic Development, Lebogang Maile, and those of corruption by the
former acting Chief Financial Officer, Karabo Nokoane, were unsubstantiated "This followed a complaint lodged in June 2019 by Ms
Mandisa Mashego, then the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Party Leader in the
Provincial Legislature," she said.