DStv in partnership with the Premier Soccer
League recently launched a ground-breaking cup competition that has since gotten South
African football fans excited about finally being at the forefront of influencing the game. The DStv Compact Cup, themed as The
Viewer’s Choice is a first of its kind in South African football and sees fans selecting their own
players from an array of talent available in the PSL. HOW DOES IT WORK? By simply dialling *120*830# or visiting https://supersport.com/dstvcompactcup,
fans will be tasked to form an evenly balanced squad of
twenty-six players, which must consist of at least eight defenders, eight midfielders, four
strikers, two goalkeepers as well as four DStv Diski Challenge players. The unique format, as structed by the PSL
in partnership with DStv challenges fans to put aside their long-standing rivalry and
collaborate in building a strong team to represent their region as demarcated by the PSL as follows: • Coastal Group 1: AmaZulu FC; Golden
Arrows FC; Maritzburg United; Royal AM FC • Coastal Group 2: Cape Town City FC;
Stellenbosch FC; Chippa United FC; Baroka FC (exception) • Inland Group 3: SuperSport Utd; Mamelodi
Sundowns FC; Marumo Gallants; Sekhukhune Utd • Inland Group 4: Orlando Pirates FC;
Kaizer Chiefs FC; Moroka Swallows FC; TS Galaxy FC The fast-paced knockout competition is set
to take place on DStv Compact next year, to officially kick start the year with some
exciting Mzansi football. TOURNAMENT FORMAT: The competition will be in a knockout
format of two-semi-finals taking place on 22 January 2022 and then concluded with a 3rd/4th
place play-off and final on 29 January. To catch this action, subscribe to DStv Compact for only
R409 p/m. PRIZE MONEY: The winner of the innovative tournament
will take home one million Rands. Furthermore, a lucky DStv Compact subscriber will be an
instant millionaire by simply participating in the voting process. TEAM NAMES: Not only are fans invited to form regional
teams, DStv is also affording fans the opportunity to name their team of stars in this unique and
exciting competition. Fans can also suggest their creative club names on the Supersport
social media platforms, using the hashtag #DStvCompactCup. Team Name Suggestion Platforms: Twitter: @SupersportTV Facebook: Supersport TV