GAUTENG Health Department has slammed the recent attacks on mobile vaccination teams in Tshwane. The latest incident took place in Soshanguve block JJ on Friday, 21 January. Spokeswoman Kwara Kekana said the department condemned robbery of Tshwane district vaccination teams. “The continued attacks on mobile vaccination teams, who are taking the vaccine programme to the community are not only putting the lives of healthcare workers in danger, but they have a negative impact on the vaccination programme.” Kekana said in a separate incident, their partner Pulse Health team, supporting Soshanguve block JJ vaccination, was robbed on Friday, 21 January by five men at a pop-up vaccination site next to Rivoningo Primary School in Soshanguve that afternoon. “The incident happened as the vaccination team was busy at the pop-up site. The perpetrators fled with vaccination programme gadgets of two tablets and five cellphones belonging to the team.” The matter was reported at Rietgat Police Station, where a case was opened. Kekana said luckily, none of the members were harmed and counselling would be provided to the affected staff. However, she said last month, another mobile vaccination team was robbed at gunpoint at a pop-up vaccination site at Wonder City Taxi Rank, again in Soshanguve. “Members of the community need to rise in defence of the vaccination teams as the situation is getting out of hand. All these incidents are happening at the time when the government is trying to increase vaccine access by taking the vaccination programme closer to the people. “We call on all members of society to work with law enforcement agencies to ensure these perpetrators are brought to book.” Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said: “A case of armed robbery has been opened at Rietgat Police Station and no arrest has been made yet and investigations are ongoing.” Masondo also said the complainants claimed they were busy at a vaccination station in Soshanguve and five unknown men approached them with firearms on their waists and took four cellphones and cash from them and fled on foot.