UP-AND-COMING film director and playwright Nondumiso Madlala needs funding for her feature film, Last Seen. It needs a minimum of R250 000 so it could get a chance to be seen at cinemas. She said the KZN Film Commission helped her with funds to develop it. “I am grateful for the financial assistance, but now I need to produce it. “If I can get the funds in January I’d be able to launch it next month or early this year,” said Nondumiso, whose been working on the project since last year. The feature film is based on the after-effects of gender-based violence. “I wanted to approach the issue from a different angle. I’ve been working on this film for a while. I didn’t rush it because I wanted a good and strong storyline. I also wanted to create suspense, as well as good visual effects,” Nondumiso explained. The leading actors include Durban Gen actress Asiphe Ntuli, Nkanyiso Ndlovu and Scelo Ngcobo. ALSO READ : LAMIEZ MEETS GOGO ESTHER! “Asiphe portrays the character of Zinhle, a good-hearted teenager from the northern Durban suburb, Avoca Hills. She’s finally managed to escape her abusive relationship with her boyfriend Tebza and she finds love in the arms of the handsome young Siya,” she said. “Zinhle and Siya decide to spend the weekend away with their friends to celebrate their six-month relationship. But a night before the vacation, Zinhle receives a video call from her ex-boyfriend Tebza. He is looking for love back but Zinhle rejects him and wants nothing to do with him. When everything fails, Tebza tries to commit suicide while on a video call with Zinhle,” she said. “Initially, she is terrified but she soon realises this is manipulation. She ignores it but her friends, whom she’s been chatting with on a WhatsApp group, start disappearing from the group. Once they leave the group, they change their statuses to ‘Once you see me offline just know I’m off life’. She starts calling them and no one answers. She starts getting worried that whatever happened to their friends is coming for her.” She has already produced a shorter version of the film. “I spent R5 000 to produce a short version but I need to produce a complete version of it. I’m therefore appealing to our local government to assist me.”