AN ANC January 8 celebrations mini-rally scheduled to be
addressed by Deputy President David Mabuza at Mankweng outside Polokwane, in
Limpopo, has been called off. This brings to two such events being cancelled within 24
hours. Hundreds of ANC supporters had gathered at the Mankweng Park
in anticipation of being addressed by Mabuza but an hour after his scheduled
programme, Mabuza was a no-show, and police withdrew from the venue as word
started spreading that the event has been called off. Mabuza had earlier in the morning laid a wreath at former
ANC Youth League leader Peter Mokaba’s grave in the area and was scheduled to
have a walk of remembrance before addressing the mini rally. He is said to have also met the family of the former youth
league firebrand.  It appears other activities of other senior leaders of the
party outside Polokwane where ANC chairperson Gwede Mantashe and
treasurer-general Paul Mashatile have also been abandoned. It’s unclear why their programmes have been called off by
the party’s communication team, which had not sent their programmes by late
Thursday as expected. On Thursday, President Cyril Ramaphosa walked out of an ANC
Women’s League Lilian Ngoyi lecture in Lebowakgomo Civic Centre.  At the time, the league said it could not allow Ramaphosa to
deliver the lecture because the gathering had violated Covid-19 regulations,
but rumours are now swirling that he had withdrawn for security reasons. This
has been flatly dismissed by the party. Security issues around the January 8 celebrations have been
raised following the torching of Parliament and the attack on the
Constitutional Court after deputy chief Justice Raymond Zondo released the first
of his three-part series of reports.  After teeing off at the Euphoria Golf Course on Friday, 7
January 7, Ramaphosa was scheduled to deliver the Peter Mokaba lecture at the
Jake Botes Hall in Polokwane. Initially, it was put down for 2pm but has since been moved
to 3.30pm. Reasons for moving the event to 3.30pm have not been communicated
but by 2pm, a small crowd of ANC members were toyi-toying by the gate in what
looked like a threatening confrontation with the police as they looked set to
force their way in. An iNyala and heavy police presence have been deployed at
the venue.