MZANSI’S long jump legend Khotso Mokoena has hung up his spikes for good this time. Mokoena (36) came out of retirement twice in search of more glory in the sandpit, but he insists that he is leaving the sport for good. At the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, China, Mokoena leaped 8.24m to win a silver medal. In 2016, he flopped at the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, bowing out in the qualification rounds. A visibly dejected Mokoena told SunSport that he was retiring at the time. However, he changed his mind and returned to the sandpit to try and qualify for the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan last year. The four-time Olympian failed to qualify for the Games and subsequently announced his exit from the sport. However, he started training in November last year to prepare for the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, England, in June as he wanted to bow out on a high. But he had a change of heart at the weekend and decided to call it a day to focus on his role as the SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) board member. Mokoena was elected as the Sascoc athletes’ commission chairperson last year. He believes that it would not work out if he juggled his role as an administrator and an athlete. “I am training for health purposes, not returning to the sandpit as an athlete. The training is still happening. But, I have abandoned my plans to compete at the Commonwealth Games because I am quitting the sport for real this time. “I achieved a lot in the past 20 years. I feel that I will do an injustice to myself if I carry on at my age. I want to avoid embarrassment because I know that my body will not carry me as it used to at the Games. The youngsters would embarrass me and turn me into a laughing stock,” Mokoena told SunSport yesterday. The 2014 Commonwealth Games triple jump gold medallist wants to focus on his administrative role on a full-time basis. In March and April, he will lead the athletes’ Indaba talks at the SA Olympic House to engage the athletes about how they would like to be assisted by the commission. “I want to give all my energy and time towards serving the athletes. We will have the sports Indaba talks. We will discuss how we can assist the athletes from different sporting codes,” he said. Mokoena is leaving the long jump in good condition but was worried about the triple jump. “There is a shortage of female jumpers, and that is my main concern,” Mokoena added.