PREMIER Soccer League (PSL) chairman Dr Irvin Khoza says the matter involving Kaizer Chiefs of no-show last December is being handled by the legal department of the league, saying he was sorry he can’t give answers in the press conference on Wednesday. Khoza was expected to deliver a verdict on the Chiefs matter in the press conference at Parktown but said, as delicate as it is, the “matter is sensitive and they are dealing with the club that has been compliant to the PSL rules.” Chiefs, in December last year, wrote two letters to the PSL requesting to see all their four matches postponed because of positive cases within its camp, but the PSL declined them. The PSL, in its decline, was following its own circular agreed by all 32 clubs on 10 December 2020, that said, “Covid-19 positive results are not exceptional circumstances justifying the postponement of a match”. This was first raised in the BOG on 31 July 2020 prior to the BSE and referred to the executive committee. Chiefs, aware of this, decided not to show up for a match against Cape Town City on 4 December. Four days later after they didn’t avail for the City match, Chiefs also did not travel to Durban to face Golden Arrows at Princess Magogo Stadium because of the increase of positive cases. “As an executive committee, we rejected Chiefs’ initial request. The matter is now being handled by the various legal departments,” Khoza said. “I hear through the media that there might be future issues such as appeals and things like that, we all know that every administrative decision is reviewable. Therefore, it’s not easy for me to talk about the details as the process is still ongoing. It will only be fair that I hold back information to give the process a chance to reach its final conclusion. “We did that with the Sekhukhune United and Royal AM decision with pressure from the media, but we cannot make a running commentary on an ongoing matter.” Khoza, in the press conference, confirmed Tim Sukazi raised his concern in the PSL Board of Governors’ meeting (BOG) on 10 December 2020 about the PSL agreeing that Covid-19 results “are not exceptional circumstances justifying the postponement of a match.” In the same circular to all member clubs of 32, it said: “Where a member club is found guilty in terms of Rule 15.2, its opponent that match will receive “walk over” (a 3-0 (three-nil) win), unless the Disciplinary Committee considers a different sanction, maybe more appropriate.” “In the BOG meeting when the decision was taken about the response to Covid, guess who came up with a suggestion?” revealed Khoza. “At least he was prophesying that we will be faced with this kind of situation, it was Tim Sukazi. He stood up towards the end of the meeting. He said ‘I foresee a problem. How are you going to deal with this problem?’” Virus-free. www.avast.com