THREE months on since a controversial takeover by the Saudi sovereign wealth fund was given the green light by the Premier League, Newcastle have the chance to splash their new-found wealth in the January transfer window. The Magpies are badly in need of reinforcements just to remain in the English top-flight after winning just one of their 19 games this season. Newcastle’s last two matches have even been postponed because they were unable to field a team with enough senior players due to coronavirus infections, and a growing injury list that could dictate who arrives at St. James’ Park in the next 27 days. Defenders are expected to be top of the shopping list after Newcastle shipped a Premier League record 80 goals in 2021, 42 of which have come this season. England international right-back Kieran Trippier is reportedly close to $34 million (about R614 million) move from Atletico Madrid with Lille centre-back Sven Botman also a target. “Trippier is an extraordinary footballer who has given us a lot and we will try to keep him,” said Atletico manager Diego Simeone after Sunday’s 2-0 win over Rayo Vallecano. But nowadays, when a player wants to leave, you can’t force them to stay.” Injuries to Newcastle’s two most potent attacking weapons Callum Wilson and Allan Saint-Maximin have also seen some star strikers linked with a move to Tyneside, including Arsenal’s out of favour Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. BIGGER SQUADS Despite record numbers of Covid-19 cases as Britain battles the Omicron variant, Premier League clubs have so far been allowed to maintain full crowds. That has avoided a repeat of the economic losses from matchday revenue of the past two seasons and the English top-flight’s record breaking $2.7 billion US television rights with NBC to kick in next season will only increase its financial advantage over other major leagues. But there is not expected to be much transfer activity among those towards the top of the table with Manchester City already taking control of the title race thanks to a 10-point lead over Chelsea. – AFP