REALITY TV star Nonkanyiso “LaConco” Conco has finally opened up about her split from former president Jacob Zuma. In a teary heart to heart conversation with Sorisha Naidoo on Season Two of Real Housewives of Durban, she said she’s accepted it’s over. “It’s been such an emotional journey and I’m not OK. No one gets into a relationship, especially if you’re young, to face circumstances I faced. I had to come to a point where I had to accept this is the situation, these are the circumstances and this is it. I never knew I’d be raising my son with my mum. Unfortunately, circumstances have caused the relationship to be where it is today.” LaConco went on to say: “I’ve had my share of pain, I’ve had my share of struggles and I’ve had my share of challenges, but I vowed that I’ll forever respect that man.” She said she found love and stayed true to that love. “But there were people who had interest in that love and made it a public thing when it was not my intention. I don’t think the scars will ever heal. I don’t think there’s a young lady like me, who has ever found love like that, had a child and was hurt or insulted publicly like Nonkanyiso Conco.” ALSO READ : PICS: VETERAN ACTOR PATRICK SHAI LAID TO REST Show participant Annie Ludick said LaConco hadn’t been wearing her ring. “She said it went in the pool or something like that. Why can’t she just tell us the truth? I think they are not together anymore.” She told Sorisha: “She is very much single.” It seems LaConco’s relationship with Zuma has been troubled for some time. In an interview with Phat Joe, she couldn’t explain why she no longer wore her ring, saying: “There’s a time where you take away your ring for cleaning and there’s a time where your insurance. . . it just goes away.” LaConco rose to fame when she gave birth to the former president’s son and they later got engaged. Her father Fartescue Conco never blessed the union, but vowed it would end in tears. In 2020, City Press reported the two had separated. A source told the publication: “The split was put under wraps. Nonkanyiso received a strong warning from the Zumas that she must not reveal the separation to avoid media attention,”