LOCAL football returns this weekend with a unique cup competition, the DStv Compact Cup. The first of its kind viewer’s choice competition will turn enemies into friends for a few weeks as players from different PSL clubs come together to form four different teams. Coastal United, Dinaledi, Amabutho and Warriors FC are made up of players from all 16 top-flight teams and will battle for a cool R1 million cash prize. And Durban’s Moses Mabhida will be the battleground in the semi-finals on Saturday as Coastal United take on Dinaledi at 3pm. The second semi-final will see Warriors FC taking on Amabutho at 6pm. The starting line-ups for the fixtures have been confirmed according to the supporters’ votes, with some interesting combinations set to be witnessed. Dinaledi FC are dominated by Mamelodi Sundowns players, with five Brazilians in the starting line up for Dan “Dance” Malesela’s side. Ricardo Goss, who has been picked by the fans in goals, is looking forward to being in the same team with players from rival teams such as SuperSport United, Marumo Gallants and Sekhukhune United. “I’ve played with everybody in this team except Phillip Ndlondlo. I know most of the guys in the team, which is going to be good for us,” Goss told his club’s website. “I think most of us have actually played together when you look at it, especially at national teams and that will help in going a long way. “It’s going to be nice to see Lehlohonolo Nonyane once again because we used to play together at Wits, and we had a partnership at the back. Most of these guys I’ve played with at national level, and it’s not really new faces or anything like that.” Dinaledi’s opponents, Coastal FC, are made up of players from Cape Town City FC, Stellenbosch FC, Chippa United and Baroka FC. They will be coached by Stellies’ Steve Barker and their danger men will be the speedy Ashley du Preez, Bafana Bafana striker Evidence Makgopa and Cape Town City’s Thabo Nodada. “Obviously they’ve got speed upfront, they’ve got height too, so we will need to deal with that,” added Goss. “In the middle, they have a lot of experience in Mogakolodi Ngele, Mpho Makola, Thabo Nodada and Nathan Sinkala. We will need to be prepared to deal with those players.” Meanwhile, the Warriors’ starting team will be dominated by Kaizer Chiefs players in Itumeleng Khune, Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, Njabulo Blom, Njabulo Ngcobo and Keagan Dolly. And for Amabutho, the players to watch will be Royal AM’s Victor Letsoalo, as well as AmaZulu’s Luvuyo Memela and Augustine Mulenga.