AMAPIANO artist Lady Du is happy and at peace after her break-up. She and actor Andile Mxakaza recently announced the end of their relationship. Mxakaza blamed their break up on witchcraft. In a lengthy Instagram post, Lady Du said she actually feels lighter and more revived. “It’s OK to cry as long as you release whatever you are feeling. It’s OK to be transparent so people never have things to say that are beyond your control. I don’t live life watching what I say and do. I actually live by the truth, nothing but the truth, I don’t have to tell 10 stories to correct the lies. Faith is the key, hope is what keeps me going. Wisdom is my wealth. “”No money, material or things of the world can change my character. I pray every single day. I speak to God about my problems, not people,” her post reads. “The level of understanding I have of where I am in my spirit and faith is what actually helps me pull through a lot of things. I know some of you think I’m hurting but to be honest with you from the bottom of my soul, I am in such a happy place, I feel free. I actually feel lighter and more revived. We are vessels of God, I’m not here to please anyone, my purpose in life is to BE LIKE CHRIST!!! Understanding who you are and why you were brought into this world,” the post continued. ALSO READ : ANATII RETURNS TO SOCIAL MEDIA! She said she is not a celebrity and not chasing fame. “A strong woman is one that keeps quiet and trusts what God is about to display in her life. I am not a celebrity, fame is not what I am chasing! I love what I do, I’ve been doing the exact same thing for 15 years straight consistently. I have not changed not once. “Nothing negative said about me gets to me. I firmly know who I am. CONTENT!” she wrote. The post saw her industry friends supporting and distancing themselves from the celebrity status. Actress Refilwe Modiselle said: “‘I am not a celebrity... Fame is not what I’m chasing...’ This I relate to. Share the exact same sentiments.” Instagram user Takulanyani Muneri posted: “We pray and work on being like Christ, for us to live is Christ. The one who says he abides in Him ought himself to walk in the same manner as He walked. Much love Dudu and may God continue showering His love and grace upon you.”