CONTROVERSIAL Ukhozi FM Song of the Year winner Hlosiwe “DJ Hlo” Mthalane didn’t expect her controversial win against industry big fish. She was addressing the media at Dukkah Restaurant in Durban after she received big backlash for winning, as many top artists and music lovers were saying they didn’t know her or her song. DJ Hlo told Daily Sun she didn’t wait for a miracle but went all over the country campaigning for votes and believed those who said they didn’t know her were lying. “Yes, I didn’t expect to but I hoped to win because of my big campaigns. The backlash is encouraging me to work hard more and I will use it to go on with my career. “I campaigned in many places across the country and I would like to thank Zulu king Misuzulu, ANC RET Forces, Bishop Vusi Dube and many more. I campaigned even in the Zulu royal house, churches, and more.” She said her song was released in October and her own campaign started there even before she asked fans to nominate it for the Ukhozi FM top 10.  ALSO READ | MPUMI MZOBE INVOLVED IN A CAR ACCIDENT She announced she would host her celebration festival at King Zwelithini Stadium in Umlazi on 29 January. “In this festival, I also want those who I defeated on Ukhozi FM song of the year top ten to share the stage with me to honour them. “I’m also planning to launch the DJ Hlo Foundation to plough back into the community and train other female DJs.” Although the DJ won’t get a cent for winning, she was happy for the spotlight and huge recognition. “Winning this title has opened many doors in the music industry and everyone is talking about me and I’m getting more bookings,” she said. Her boss, iMaz Entertainment owner Dr Musa Zulu, said those who say they didn’t know DJ Hlo would get to know her. “This was the music champion marathon and what made us win was that Ukhozi was transparent, giving us updates about the state of the votes. When we noticed we were leading with more than 50 000 votes, we intensified our campaigns, even engaging businesspeople to sponsor us with airtime and many of them were voting in front of us,” he said.