WORKERS at Itireleng Centre for the Blind in Ga-Rankuwa said they’d protest until they receive their budget from the Department of Social Development. On Tuesday, 11 January, they said they had to spend the night at the centre to send a strong message. Worker Johannes Ramoshaba told Daily Sun they were gatvol of always fighting for budget from the department. He said they have struggled to get their budget for three years and the delay affected their well-being. He said the workshop couldn’t continue to operate due to a lack of funds. “We want the department to release the funds so we can receive our stipends. We have been sleeping here, hoping to send a strong message to the department. We are tired of always protesting just to be heard. We want to buy material so that we can produce our products. We are angry and are not turning back,” he said. Another worker, Reaitirela Workshop vice chairman Lucas Kopaopa, said the department ran around every time they were supposed to get budget. “We are yet to receive our budget for the centre for 2020 and 2021 and don’t know anything at this point. This is why we decided to strike. Our lives have stopped and we want those at the top to take this matter seriously.” Committee chairman Mpho Sekhonyane said: “We use money to come here and don’t have money. As people living with disabilities from various provinces, we rely on this workshop and we will suffer if they are not taking care of us.” Gauteng Social Development spokeswoman Feziwe Ndwayana said they were aware the workshop was not functional, and this was the decision made by the board with beneficiaries. She said all NPOs were allocated a budget after their request for funding was approved based on compliance with funding requirements. “The department has communicated to the NPO it will be funded after a valid bank account is submitted and the registration process on CSD is concluded by the NPO. The department is not permitted to release funding until the NPO is compliant,” said Ndwayana.