Collaborations of female singers in Mzansi always get their fans excited. Former Idols SA contestants Q Twins have teamed up with singer Nonhle “Skye Wanda” Mhlongo, on a themed single. The song, Impilo, is aimed at bringing awareness to cyberbullying. Skye and the Q Twins, whose real names are Viggy and Virginia Qwabe, will be releasing the song on Friday, 28 January. They told SunBuzz it is inspired by the things they go through on social media and will push self-love. “We wanted to make a song that speaks to self-love and being proud of who and what you are. “This is to encourage everyone to not be defined by public opinion and to live your life doing what makes you happy,” said Skye. “The song is about being yourself and loving yourself and not being ashamed of everything you are. ALSO READ : DANCING DINEO IS BACK! “What inspired us is that we connect to the song because we were cyberbullied on social media. That broke us emotionally but we recovered from it. “There are lots of girls and boys facing the same thing and we aim to encourage and uplift them with this message of self-love,” said Virginia. Viggy said they think the song is great because they connected well with Skye, and she also related to cyberbullying. “DJ Tira linked us with Skye and we got to know each other. “We spoke a lot about our past and how we deal with social media bullying especially. We saw it fit to do this song,” she said. They all said they are hoping to get in studio together again soon because they enjoyed making Impilo. “We are not working on any music currently. We want to push Impilo. “But there’s a high possibility of us getting back into studio because we gel so well musically,” said Skye. Virginia said: “Working with Skye Wanda was amazing and we would like to work with her again. She is such a talented soul.” They did, however, say they are working on projects separately. “There is more beautiful music coming and we are working on our EP, so people must be on the lookout for that,” said Virginia. “I’m starting the year with some interesting features, but there definitely is an album for Skye this year,” said Skye.