THE ANC cadre deployment committee is so powerful that even President Cyril Ramaphosa has to account when he makes appointments. This was one of the damning revelations that emerged from minutes of the committee’s meetings the DA was given after a court battle for their release. The DA’s Leon Schreiber described the committee as the foundation of state capture. He said over three years, the committee influenced 88 appointments to state entities, including ministers and deputy ministers. According to the minutes, Ramaphosa appeared before the committee for input and approval before appointments were made to the party’s state-owned enterprises council. According to Schreiber, at one point Ramaphosa had to apologise to the committee for making certain appointments. Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was also scolded for making certain appointments. “At the top, you obviously have revelations regarding its influence on the deployment of judges to the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Appeal, the Labour Court and high courts,” said Schreiber. He said the minutes the party obtained covered the period from May 2018 to May 2021 but the DA would be launching a court bid to get records of meetings dating back to 2013 when Ramaphosa was the committee chairman and ANC deputy president. Schreiber said the records were proof that state capture was continuing under Ramaphosa. He said the committee was still active and met at least once a month. The committee recommends which ANC cadres should be hired to the boards of state-owned enterprises, with some seats reserved for comrades. The committee also manages a database to give loyal ANC members inside information about job openings at state institutions. “It is not only ministers who account to the cadre deployment committee. We now have evidence that public servants who are supposed to be non-political appointees also account to the committee,” said Schreiber. “Support, membership and loyalty to the ANC is a key criteria for appointment. The deployment committee may also discriminate, in some cases, on the basis of race, gender and other identity markers.” The DA plans to write to National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula to request an urgent debate on the matter.The party will also request that appointments be reviewed and if they are found to be illegal, that they be reversed.