INSTEAD of Kelebogile Zondo coming home from initiation as a man, he came back in a body bag. The body of the 18-year-old from the Vaal was dumped at Orange Farm Clinic in extension 2 on 31 December. According to his family, his body was bruised from suspected beatings, his stomach was swollen and his teeth were black. Kelebogile went to a bogus initiation school after his parents refused to let him go for initiation. The bogus initiation school is next to the N1 just outside the kasi. Tshepo Legasa (54), Kelebogile’s father, told the SunTeam on Tuesday, 4 January that they went to open a missing persons case. “I told Kelebogile he couldn’t go to initiation school because going to the mountain is not our culture,” said the father. “He said I didn’t understand the pressure he was under from a local initiation chief. “He said he was going to go whether I refused or not.” Two days later, Kelebogile went missing. “Neighbours told me he left with two of his close friends carrying bags and from then I knew he went to initiation school,” said Tshepo. “I went to the local cop shop to open a case of a missing persons case so he could be traced, but cops said an 18-year-old can go anywhere he wants because he is an adult.” Tshepo’s daughter Dumazile Zondo (31) said they approached an initiation chief from their kasi. “We went to the man because he is a neighbour. When we asked him where my brother was, he said he didn’t know,” said Dumazile. “Some days later he said he found him at another camp and will take him under his care.” When the family learnt of the news, they were relieved and decided to let him undergo the process but cops came with the initiation chief on 31 December and said their son was no more. “When we got to the clinic in Orange Farm we found Kelebogile dead on a stretcher,” said Tshepo. “Security officers told us how he was dumped by some men who then ran away but they didn’t manage to catch them.” Tshepo said Kelebogile was his only son. “He was already admitted to the University of Johannesburg. “All we want is justice and his killers jailed,” he said. Police spokesman Sergeant Shaan Motsapi confirmed the incident and said an inquest has been opened.