THE lawyer representing 49-year-old Zandile Christmas Mafe from Cape Town who’s accused of torching Parliament, says his client was wrongfully accused. He said government was using him as a scapegoat for its failure to make Parliament secure. Lawyer Luvuyo Godla spoke to the media just after the case was postponed. Godla, who also represented EFF MPs after their salaries were docked for disrupting Parliament proceedings, said his client was being used to cover up government’s failures. “What interest would that poor man have in Parliament?” he asked. The lawyer who’s helping Mafe on a pro-bono basis said his client denied the allegations. “To have someone and you place a particular person near a crime scene after apprehending him or her doesn’t necessarily mean this is the person. I don’t want to go to circumstances and merits of this case but all that I can tell you, he denies and rejects these charges,” said Godla. On arrival in a fully packed court, Mafe got inside the dock and removed his mask before turning around to be photographed. He appeared in the Cape Town Magistrates Court on charges relating to the National Key Points Act, where Magistrate Zamekile Mbalo was presiding over the matter. The accused was bust soon after fire started in the Parliamentary precinct and faces charges ranging from arson to theft. The charge sheet, seen by the SunTeam, stated the accused discharged explosives at the Parliament precinct. It said the accused wrongfully and intentionally placed and discharged explosives in the Parliament buildings that intended to cause damage or destroy them. Mafe is also accused of stealing laptops, crockery and documents from Parliament. The matter has been postponed until 11 January for bail application. National
Prosecuting Authority spokesman Eric Ntabazalila said: "More charges are
likely to be added as the investigation continues. The State requested the
court to postpone the case for the next seven days for bail information such as
the confirmation of his residential address, whether he has any assets, any
pending cases, any pending warrants of arrests against him and any previous
convictions." 