MONKEYS are terrorising former finance minister Tito Mboweni. He posted pictures of the mess that monkeys made in his house. They ate his food, pooped on his chair, leaving broken eggs and banana peels on the floor. Mboweni complained on social media he understood they needed to exist, but they were abusive. “I accept the nature principle of peaceful existence. But these monkeys are abusive. Messed up my kitchen, broke up my eggs, ate my vegetables and then pood on my chair! Unacceptable!!” he tweeted. He then took pictures of them sitting on his roof, saying their poo was very smelly. “These things are abusive!! I mean, really now!! Poo on my dining chair! The place is smelling of their poo! No man, Jeso,” he said in another tweet. ALSO READ : WHAT CAUSED JABU'S CAR CRASH? While some of his followers were entertained and said the monkeys were looting, some also shared their monkey encounters. Mosotho Goddess wrote: “I know the pain of house being invaded by monkeys, as beautiful as it might be to live in nature, but the monkeys are a nuisance. Had to endure that for five years, it was hell.” Onkgopotse Tiro said he had an encounter with them at a lodge. “I was once at a lodge full of monkeys when suddenly one jumped into our kitchen. Fortunately, we spotted it and shooed it away. The lodge maid told us if we were not there, they would’ve done exactly this and we thought she was exaggerating.” Dabson Mhofu Kanyoka tweeted: “December 2014 we were went to Kruger National Park. We parked by a rest camp. My sons were the last to leave the car, monkeys started harassing them, stealing from the car,” @Punchu_Pie said they broke into her house too. “They raided my kitchen this one time. Eat my bread, fruits and marshmallows. I was so upset. They’re very naughty.” I accept the nature principle of peaceful existence. But these monkeys are abusive. Messed up my kitchen, broke up my eggs, ate my vegetables and then pood on my chair! Unacceptable!! pic.twitter.com/0IbXgo7yoU  These things are abusive!! I mean, really now!! Poo on my dining chair! The place is smelling of their poo! No man.. Jeso… pic.twitter.com/KcDqhmgvUo 