WARRIORS coach Dylan Kerr said it was difficult for him to express his opinion on why Itumeleng Khune has not seen much game time for his club Kaizer Chiefs. Khune reminded the football masses that he still got it, pulling a number of saves, from range and point-blank saves as Warriors defeated Amabutho 2-1 in the semi-final of the DStv Compact Cup at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban on Saturday. The 34-year-old goalkeeper has not played a single league match for Chiefs this season, as coach Stuart Baxter has preferred Nigerian goalie Daniel Akpeyi. Khune’s only appearance for Chiefs this season was in the MTN8 quarter-finals against Mamelodi Sundowns last August, where the Tshwane giants won 4-3 on a penalty shoot-out. He was on the bench against Baroka FC in the second league match of the season at FNB Stadium, also in August, and since then he has not even been on the bench. But he showed that he still a top class keeper, denying Amabutho’s Pule Mmodi twice. Kerr, who was selected as Warriors coach, said Khune has not “let himself down” by that performance which helped earn his side a date with Coastal United in the Compact Cup final at FNB Stadium on Saturday. “It is difficult because he was playing (in the MTN8) and has not played at all (in the league),” said Kerr. “I don’t think he has played this season apart from only one in the cup. But obviously, Stuart, Dillion Sheppard and Arthur Zwane (Baxter’s assistants) were watching this game at home and he did not let himself down. “He’s a good professional, good attitude, he has worked his socks off for me in the last two days. I don’t think he realised the amount of work goalkeepers have had to make when they do training sessions with me, crossing, finishing, even small-sided games he was always involved in. “So credit to him. He made one brilliant save in the second half when we were under a little bit of pressure.” Khune has gone through some trying times in the last few seasons, with a loss of form, weight issues, and dealing with a sad personal tragedy where he lost his sister in a fire. Khune is contracted to Amakhosi until the end of 2022-23 season.