SOUTH Africa captain, Dean Elgar, is not getting carried away by his side’s impressive performance in the second Test against India. The Proteas defeated the Indians by seven wickets in the second Test at the Wanderers on Thursday, to level the three-match series at one-all. Elgar produced another one of his trademark gritty knocks, scoring 96 not out in the second innings to guide his side to a record-breaking win at the Wanderers. Although he was delighted with the performance of his team, Elgar insists they need to keep their feet firmly on the ground and keep improving if they are to clinch the series. They head into the decider which kicks off tomorrow at Newlands, Cape Town eager to ride their wave of momentum. “There were areas that we focused on and going into Cape Town, we’ll have to over-emphasise them again,” said Elgar. “We’ll have to be strict with our game plan, so we won’t be changing too much going into Cape Town with regards to our game plans. It’s a positive result. No doubt about that and it was a step in the right direction. “But we’re still going to have challenging encounters coming our way, and that includes the next Test that starts tomorrow. “We’re going to be pushed to different boundaries and how the guys respond to that is going to be important. “However, we’re going with a positive mindset and we believe we are moving in the right direction. It’s also a confidence booster for a lot of the players in the squad. “We’ve got a relatively inexperienced squad, but we still know that not everything is going to go our way.” Elgar, who was just four runs short of reaching yet another ton in the second innings against India, insists that he is happy to sacrifice personal accolades for the benefit of the team. He also took numerous body blows, braving out some tough Indian bowling to lead his team to victory. “I don’t play for the accolades. I don’t play for personal gain. I play for my teammates, and I play for winning. That’s why I play this game,” added the resilient Elgar. “I think they should stop hitting me because I don’t seem to get out. I draw on that pain. Some call it stupid, some call it brave.”