KAIZER Chiefs, based on the circular that was sent to clubs in 2020 before the 2020-21 got underway, are set to forfeit the points in two matches where they had a no-show last year, SunSport has learnt. However, the Soweto giants, because they are in the premier division, are set to be fined heavily for their actions, because they brought the league, sponsors, Safa, Caf and Fifa rules into disrepute. But it is not clear whether PSL chairman Irvin Khoza will confirm the charges related to Chiefs for failing to honour their two matches because of Covid-19 within its camp at the press conference today. Chiefs wrote letters to the PSL requesting to see all their four matches in December postponed because of positive cases within its camp, but the PSL declined them. However, Chiefs decided not to honour a match against Cape Town City on 4 December, just two days after writing to the league. Four days later, Chiefs could not travel to Durban to face Golden Arrows at Princess Magogo Stadium because of positive reasons. According to SunSport sources, Chiefs will forfeit those games and 3-0 will be awarded to City and Arrows respectively. According to a circular that was sent to clubs ON 10 December, it said, as a headline, “Covid-19 positive results are not exceptional circumstances justifying the postponement of a match”. This letter was signed by PSL acting CEO Mato Madlala. This after it was raised in the Board of Governors’ meeting (BOG) on 31 July 2020 prior to the BSE and referred to the executive committee. Cape Umoya was the first to suffer a consequence. They were found guilty for failing to honour the match against Cape Town Spurs on 3 December last year because they reportedly 28 staff tested positive. Umoya protested to the league by bringing Covid-19 as force majeure (unforeseen circumstances) in not honouring the match. Having been found guilty of misconduct in terms of Rule 15.2, applicable sanctions were referred from Rule 15.3 of the Complainant’s Rules (PSL) which it says: “Where a member club is found guilty in terms of Rule 15.2, its opponent that match will receive “walk over” (a 3-0 (three-nil) win), unless the Disciplinary Committee considers a different sanction, maybe more appropriate.” This was a sanction handed to Umoya, who protested the game should be postponed. But SunSport has learnt that Chiefs will suffer the same consequence of forfeiting the games. Because they are a club from the premier division, there’s a possibility of them being charged over R1 million. That money Chiefs may not end up paying it as there’s a suspended sentence in between of 24 months which Amakhosi will be given on the condition that they are not found guilty of the same offence. However, the mole added that Chiefs, unlike Umoya, have a strong case because they flagged their issue first to the league.