Presiding officers of Parliament have announced that the
State of the Nation Address (Sona) will take place at the City Hall in Cape
Town. This follows the burning down of Parliament last week that
led to the destruction of the National Assembly where the joint sitting of  MPs for the Sona usually took place. The presiding officers sat this morning considering various
venues that had been made available by various institutions. Among possible venue options that the presiding officers
were offered include the Cape Town International Convention Centre, the City
Council Chambers, and the City Hall. "In this regard, after a great deal of consideration
and following thorough on-site inspections of alternative places, we have
decided on the most suitable facility that meets our requirements. We are
pleased to announce that the 2022 Sona will be held at the Cape Town City
Hall," said Parliament spokesman, Moloto Mothapo. He said the City Hall, which accommodate, 1,000 people, was
considered a suitable venue technically in terms of infrastructure and
capacity. "It is also a befitting place, considering its
historical significance which is embedded in the minds and hearts of South
Africans.  "Cape Town's City Hall is the first place where the
founding President of our Democratic South Africa, former President Nelson
Mandela, addressed the nation after his release from prison on 11 February 1990,
with President Cyril Ramaphosa by his side," Moloto added. The City Hall spent the last week of December 2021 in purple
lights to celebrate the life of the late Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu as
his memorial service was also held at the hall. The City Hall has a huge historical significance as on 9 May
1994, the late Archbishop Tutu introduced Tata Mandela to thousands of jubilant
South Africans in the same balcony after his election in the National Assembly
(NA) as the first democratic President. The Hall, which was built in 1905, has a statue of Mandela
on its balcony opposite the Grand Parade. "We have ensured that this decision to host the Sona
outside the Chamber of the NA, is taken in compliance with the Joint Rules of
Parliament that determine where a Joint Sitting may be held," said
Mothapo.