The Ghanaian FA wasted little time in rearranging their technical team, first sacking coach Milovan Rajevac. This is following the Black Stars' embarrassing early elimination in the group stages of the Africa Cup of Nations finals (Afcon), currently underway in Cameroon. Ghana earned a mere point in a Group C that comprised Morocco, Gabon and debutante Comoros, finishing bottom of the table. They lost to Morocco and the 132nd-ranked side Comoros before earning a draw against the Panthers of Gabon. It was the first time Ghana crashed out in the Afcon group stages since the 2006 Egypt edition. This could be the main reason they sacked the Serbian coach, who was in his second stint with the Black Stars. He led them to the final in the 2010 edition in Angola but lost to Egypt, and also led Ghana to the 2010 Fifa World Cup quarter-finals in his first term. But this became a hard nut to crack as Ghana lacked players of star quality such as their all time goalscorer Asamoah Gyan. Rajevac’s contract, signed with GFA in October, was expiring in June this year. He was tasked to guide the Black Stars to the final of the Afcon and also qualify them to the World Cup finals in Qatar in March this year. When he signed a deal to replace Charles Akonnor, it was on the back of Ghana having collected a point in two World Cup qualifiers that consisted of Bafana Bafana, Ethiopia and Zimbabwe. “The executive council decided to part ways with Rajevac,” said the GFA in a statement. “This follows the receipt of the Technical Report from the Coach, the Medical Report and the Report from the Management Committee following Ghana’s early exit... “The executive council, after considering the three reports and engagements with key stakeholders, decided to end its relationship with Rajevac, and also decided that the Black Stars Management Committee be reconstituted. “The GFA will soon announce the reconstituted Technical Team and Management Committee after due engagement with all relevant stakeholders.” The new man will be tasked to guide Ghana past Nigeria, who also crashed out in the Afcon group stages, in the two-legged play-off in March, with the winner representing Africa in the World Cup finals.