IT’S back to school and local celebrities couldn’t be happier to share their proud moments with the public. They posted photos of their kids on their social media pages, wishing them the best of luck during this academic year. The proud celebrity parents include DJ Tira, who accompanied his daughter, who will be starting grade 1. Actress Gail Mabalane’s daughter will also be officially starting school today. Actress Nolwazi Ngubeni, musician Arthur Mofakate and singer Simphiwe Dana’s kids have also started their academic journey. ALSO READ : BUST BRINGS JOY FOR REALITY TV STAR Gail wrote: “Yep! I’m THAT mom. How could I NOT be? My precious little girl… my first born… my baby is officially starting school-school. I don’t know how to feel… but what I know for sure is… God’s already gone ahead of you. Day 1 of 4 382.” Unathi Nkayi posted: “He says ‘Mom, this is my last first day of school. My first day of high school you were summiting Kilimanjaro and Daddy took me to school. I like how it’s all panned out.’ She says ‘Mom last year I had so much anxiety but this year I’m much better’ That time I’m so emotional coz I’m a ZIBAZANA in the making. God is good all the time.” On Unathi’s post, Minnie Dlamini commented: “I love them so much.” Zizo Tshwete also commented: “Where on Earth has the time gone!!!! You’ve done a GREAT job, my friend! Your smart, beautiful children are so very awesome.” Gospel artist Winnie Mashaba shared: “Modimo o re thusitse go fihla mo. My princess is so excited about going to primary #proudmoments #1stschoolday.” Mi Casa member Moshe Kgasoane also posted his kids and wrote: “My girls are so excited to be returning to school. Wow, this is really a proud moment, seeing how much they have grown. I wish them all the best and a successful year as they move to a grade higher with their academics!! #proudmoment #education #day1 #backtoschool #2022 #blessed.” But TV and radio personality Spitch Nzawumbi urged parents to be vigilant and not expose details of the kids. He wrote: “As you take pictures of your bundles of joy going to big school for the first time today, in your proud moments, please remember to hide their name badges, name of the school and grade before sharing on social media. Also, conceal faces of other children should they happen to feature in your pic. The law forbids you from publishing pics of minors without getting consent from their guardians who are of legal age. “Lastly, do not feel pressured to share pics of your little ones on the internet if you don’t feel like it. You are allowed to enjoy such precious moments alone. Child abduction cases are on the rise. Sometimes we give the lead by sharing the child’s face, names, school and grade. The little details that we share from a happy place could be that piece of information that will assist abductors. Let us rejoice yet be vigilant. Otherwise enjoy today and I hope the tears won’t last long,” said Spitch. A post shared by Unathi.Africa (@unathi.co) A post shared by Nolwazi MaShange Ngubeni (@nolwazingubeni)  A post shared by GAIL MABALANE (@gail_mabalane)  A post shared by TT MBHA (@ttmbha)  A post shared by Dr Winnie Mashaba (@winnie_mashaba)  A post shared by Moshe Kgasoane (@mot_micasa)  