OVER the years, the Nedbank Cup has served as a platform for the unknown, lower divisions teams to introduce themselves, and indeed they have. We’ve seen the so-called small teams exceeding expectations, slaying the big teams. Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates can attest to that, as they were once booted out of the competition by then minnows Baroka FC and Maluti FET College, respectively. In this season’s edition, four teams – Black Eagles (North West), Mathaithai (Free State), Sinenkani (Eastern Cape) and Summerfield Dynamos (KwaZulu-Natal) – will be making their debuts in the Ke YonaCup. The lower division newbies will be looking at reviving the giant killing act, and make a name for themselves. SunSport looks at Summerfield, who will make their Ke Yona debut against Uthongathi on 11 February at Princess Magogo Stadium. Coached by well-travelled former Bloemfontein Celtic, Chippa United and Golden Arrows coach, Clinton Larsen, Summerfield play in the KZN’s ABC Motsepe League. The club was established in 1988 by a teacher in Summerfield and is the oldest club in Chatsworth. But the club only entered the nation’s third tier competition five years ago, and now they are ready for the next step (GladAfrica Championship), according to their chairman Collin Naidoo. Summerfield are currently leading the KZN Motsepe League with four games remaining. Naidoo said they are excited to be part of the Nedbank Cup, but their main priority is on qualifying for the National Play-offs and winning promotion to Championship. “The league is our priority. We can’t hide that,” Naidoo told SunSport yesterday. “We have a few games remaining and I believe we have what it takes to juggle the cup and league. But the main prize is the league.” The club also former Chiefs midfielder Sandile Zuke, Olympian Deolin Mekoa (who was part of SA under-23 squad that went to Olympics in 2016), Njabulo Nene, Lucky Nguzana Samuel Darpoh and Kaleb Parusnath, who used to play for Golden Arrows.