FIFA has ordered Chippa United to pay their former striker Augustine Kwem R200 000 and a 5% interest of the amount. In a letter dated 20 December 2021, seen by SunSport, Fifa said should Chippa fail to settle the amount then they run the risk of being banned from signing players for three transfer windows running concurrently. Both Kaizer Chiefs and Bloemfontein Celtic suffered a similar punishment by the world football body. Kwem, who is no longer at the club having joined TS Galaxy at the beginning of the season, is owed by the club for what Fifa terms “as remuneration” and the club have been given 45 days to pay. Chippa director Lukhanyo Mzinzi said they had almost completed settling the bill. “I’m aware of it and we are almost done with the payment,” said Mzinzi. The Eastern Cape outfit are now left with 22 days to settle the bill to avoid the nasty penalty of being banned in signing players either locally or internationally. Read the letter in part: “As both parties – explicitly or tacitly – accepted the proposal, we confirm that the following now constitutes a final and binding decision on all parties pursuant to the Fifa Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players (regulations). “The respondent, Chippa, shall pay the claimant, as outstanding remuneration plus 5% interest per annum as from 24 November 2021 until the date of effective payment. “The payment (including any applicable interest) shall be made within 45 days as of notification of this confirmation letter.” It added that if full payment (including all applicable interest) is not made within the allotted days of notification, the following consequences shall apply: “The overall maximum duration of the registration ban shall be of up to three entire and consecutive registration periods.” ) The present matter shall be submitted, upon request, to the Fifa Disciplinary Committee in the event that full payment (including all applicable interest) is still not paid by the end of the three entire and consecutive registration periods.