IT’S safe to say Rivaldo Coetzee has no regrets about joining Mamelodi Sundowns about five years ago. The 25-year-old versatile player picked the Brazilians back in 2017 as his destination of choice, and that’s a decision he would make repeatedly, it seems. He joined the Tshwane giants as a centre back in 2017 from Ajax Cape Town, but has developed into one of the best defensive midfielders in the country. But most of all, Coetzee has won bags of trophies with Downs, one of the major reasons he decided to join the club. Coetzee has played a key role in Sundowns winning multiple league titles, the Nedbank Cup, Telkom Knockout and most recently, the once elusive MTN8 trophy. The Bafana Bafana star Coetzee revealed that coming from behind to beat favourites Kaizer Chiefs to the 2019/20 PSL title remains the most special moment with the club. “I think the league has been the most special. I’ve won the league every year since I’ve joined,” Coetzee told his club’s media team. “But I think the one in the bio-bubble where we came from behind to catch up to Chiefs was the most special.” In that season,Downs overturned Chiefs’ whopping 13-point lead at the summit of the log and went on to clinch the title on the final day. But since then, the Brazilians have hardly been challenged as they maintained their dominance in the PSL. They are currently favourites to bag a fifth straight league title as they boast a huge 14-point lead at the summit over second-placed Orlando Pirates. Sundowns will hope to pick up from where they left off when they return from an extended break as the PSL is on pause due to the Afcon competition. Coetzee is using the rare free time on his hands to recharge his batteries and return in top shape and high spirits to tackle the remainder of the campaign. “Currently I have no special plans and won’t be travelling for this break,” added Coetzee. “I will be staying at home recovering and trying my best to stay Covid-19 free for the break. I just want to come back stronger for the second half of the season.”