VIEWERS are angry that DStv has switched off channel 198 for packages, DStv Family and DStv Access. This was after the channel was opened for the packages for a while, so they watch Big Brother Mzansi 24\7. People were upset when they woke up on Sunday, 30 January and the channel was switched off. The hashtag #BringBackChannel198 has been trending on social media, with people saying they are angry and disgusted by what DStv did. They are calling for the channel to return, and they are saying BBMzansi should be for all DStv packages. Twitter user BBMzansi updates tweeted: “We are calling all Dstv subscribers to downgrade their package to access, we want to show this greedy corporate that we people have power without us they are nothing.” Phapha_G said she wants the channel back. ALSO READ : DR FERINI: BE BRAVE, BELIEVE IN YOURSELF! “And we want it back, before the end of today. #BRINGBACKCHANNEL198,” she wrote. Another user, BongiweNgonyama, said they are scammers. “You guys call yourselves a business, niyi scam nje and big leaches. How is a person paying R115 a month supposed to upgrade to R409. #BRINGBACKCHANNEL198,” she wrote. Big accounts are nowhere to be found under this #tag yet the want small accounts to help them trend theirs. Big brother mzansi should be for all DStv packages,” Hosi M tweeted. H Matebese tweeted: “Multichoice is disgusting for removing the channel.. BBNaija was in all packages. They only doing this to South Africans. #bringbackchannel198 From the onset we communicated that Big Brother Mzansi Season 3 would be available exclusively on DStv Compact, DStv Compact Plus and DStv Premium. This is still our position. Multichoice spokesperson, said they communicated that the channel will be available for certain packages and it will not change. “From the onset we communicated that Big Brother Mzansi Season 3 would be available exclusively on DStv Compact, DStv Compact Plus and DStv Premium. This is still our position. In line with accepted business practice we opened up channel 198 to all our customers in Southern Africa to allow for sampling of the content. We have done this previously with the PSL, My Kitchen Rules, Trackers, Reyka and a few other big format productions,” they said. @Dstv you guys call yourselves a business, niyi scam nje and big leaches. How is a person paying R115 a month supposed to upgrade to R409. #BRINGBACKCHANNEL198 we are calling all Dstv subscribers to downgrade their package to access, we want to show this greedy corporate that we people have power without us they are nothing.#BBMzanzi#bbmzansi#BRINGBACKCHANNEL198#bigbrothermzanzi #Bigbrothermzansi And we want it back, before the end of today. #BRINGBACKCHANNEL198 Big accounts are nowhere to be found under this #tag yet the want small accounts to help them trend theirs. Big brother mzansi should be for all dstv packages#bringbackchannel198 Multichoice is disgusting for removing the channel.. BBNaija was in all packages. They only doing this to South Africans. #bringbackchannel198   