SEKHUKHUNE United is set to complete the signing of Zambian left winger Rodrick Kabwe. The 29-year-old is joining the club from Zanaco, whom he joined in November last year after leaving Black Leopards. According to Kabwe’s contract with Zanaco, he signed a deal until 2023 and it’s not clear whether Sekhukhune have paid a fee for him to come over, or Kabwe has a gentleman agreement that if a club abroad is interested he’s allowed to leave for free. “Rodrick Kabwe is coming to join Sekhukhune United from Zanaco FC,” said an insider. Kabwe, who won the Zambian Premier League in 2016, firstly arrived in SA to join Cape Town Spurs (then Ajax Cape Town) in the 2016-17 season. The deadly left-footer from set plays spent four years with Ikamva club, with the other two seasons spent in the GladAfrica Championship. However, after Spurs came close to clinching the PSL promotion in the bio bubble in the 2019-20 season, Kabwe left the Mother City club to join Leopards at the beginning of last season. However, he spent one season with the Vhembe district club before departing last year. Sekhukhune, who signed 22 players before this season got underway, including Kabwe’s countryman Toaster Nsabata from ZESCO United, are also interested in the services of Justin Shonga, also from Zambia. Shonga is currently clubless after leaving Egyptian side Ismaily, whom he joined in October last year. However, his stay in Egypt was cut short and the club confirmed the termination of his contract on 1 January. The 25-year-old will be looking to rekindle his career in the PSL, having firstly joined Orlando Pirates in September 2017. But he was let go by the Soweto giants at the end of 2019-20 season to join the newly formed then Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM). In Limpopo he didn’t last long, only spending the first half of last season before joining Cape Town City. He struggled with the Mother City club and they decided to let him go in the early stages of last term. He tried his luck at AmaZulu at the beginning of this season, but Usuthu coach Benni McCarthy was concerned about his fitness, saying he doesn’t have much time to wait for him to gain his fitness due to so many games to play.