NIGERIA have booked their spot in the last-16 of the Africa Cup of Nations after they thumped Sudan 3-1 in a Group D clash at the Roumde Adjia Stadium in Garoua on Saturday evening. Samuel Chukwueze, Taiwo Awoniyi and Moses Simon were all in the scoreshet the record the emphatic victory for the Super Eagles. The result took them six points and guaranteed them a top-two finish in the group. Walieldien Khedr scored the consolation goal for The Falcons of Jediane from a penalty spot. Nigeria had the perfect start to the game when they claimed the lead in just the third minute, a long throw-in was controlled in the penalty area by Moses Simon, who teed up Samuel Chukwueze to score with a low, left-footed shot beyond Sudan goalkeeper Ali Abu-Eshrein. Nigeria came close to getting a second goal in the 36th minute when Wiliam Troost-Ekong first met a free kick and was denied by Abu-Eshrein; a second phase of attack a few seconds later then had Taiwo Awoniyi hitting the post from close range; and the subsequent loose ball was almost forced over the goal line by Moses Simon until Mustafa Elfadni intervened with a clearance. Yet Nigeria would not be denied a second, and they established a 2-0 lead on the cusp of halftime. Chukwueze’s cross from a free kick pin-balled between Troost-Ekong and Sudan’s Salah Nemer, before striking the head of Awoniyi, who unwittingly steered an effort into the back of the net – though Abu-Eshrein’s attempt at a save left much to be desired. The start of the second stanza saw the Falcons of Jediane opt for a double change in attack, as Al-Jezoli Nouh and Dhiya Mahjoub came off the bench, while Nigeria opted to swap out Chukwueze (presumably to limit his chance of injury) and bring on Alex Iwobi. The Super Eagles wasted no time in making it 3-0, scoring less than a minute after the restart, as Simon burst down the left and effectively ran onto his own lobbed ball over the defence before steering a controlled volley beyond the ‘keeper. Sudan were given a lifeline just past the midway point of the second half when they were awarded a penalty: VAR urged referee Victor Gomes to check an incident between Ola Aina and Mustafa Karshoum, with the Nigeria defender guilty of a shirt pull and step on the Sudanese player’s foot. Walieldien Khedr converted from the spot kick to reduce the deficit to 1-3 in the 70th minute. However, the goal proved no more than a consolation for Sudan, who were unable to build any further attacking pressure, allowing Nigeria to throttle down in the dying minutes and cruise to a comfortable victory. The teams will wrap up their Group D campaigns on Wednesday 19 January: Nigeria will face Guinea-Bissau in Garoua at the same time that Sudan take on Egypt in Yaounde. -supersport.com