The new year started grimly for a Stellenbosch family when their 10-year-old daughter drowned at Strand Beach in the early hours of Saturday morning. National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) spokesperson Craig Lambinon said the Gordons Bay duty crew was alerted to a missing child at 07:25 on Saturday. "The sea rescue craft Zelda was launched. NSRI rescue swimmers, Disaster Risk Management officers, the SA Police Services, Strand Surf Lifesaving lifeguards, Western Cape Government Health EMS, Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services, GB Med ambulance services, ER24 ambulance services and Life Healthcare response paramedics responded to join Law Enforcement and Law Enforcement Marine officers on the scene, where a search commenced," he said. According to the NSRI, the sea rescue craft searched in the direction of sea currents. A resident in a block of flats, opposite Strand Beach, reported sighting the girl in the water a distance away from where she had been swimming. Lambnon said:" The sea rescue craft was nearing that area at the time and the NSRI crew spotted the girl's lifeless body in the water.The child was brought to paramedics on the shore, where she was declared dead. The NSRI conveyed its condolences to the family of the deceased girl. NSRI Gordons Bay responded to a call for help after eyewitnesses witnessed a 10-year old girl floating in the seas.Police have opened an inquest docket. "According to reports, the 10 year old victim was swimming with her two siblings when she encountered difficulties in the water and disappeared beneath the waves. Her body was retrieved by the NSRI and the investigation continues," said police spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk. Meanwhile, at 09:40 on Saturday, the NSRI's Table Bay duty crew and the City of Cape Town's water rescue network responded to eyewitness reports of a local man appearing to be in difficulty in a natural tidal pool at the Sea Point Promenade. "A German couple staying in a block of flats opposite the promenade noticed the man in the water and raised the alarm," said Lambinon. "Upon arrival, an NSRI rescue swimmer entered the water, where the German man was assisting to recover the lifeless body of the man, believed to be in his 50s, from the water. The man was recovered and brought onto the rocks, where he was declared deceased." Sea Point police are investigating an inquest case. 