SUMMER is a season where many insects come out and play. From the nectar seeking bee to the ever-present flies and ants. Summer is indeed a season when insects come alive. Another insect that tends to wreak havoc on our bodies during summer is the mosquito. Many of us have physical evidence of mosquito bites on our bodies that itch like crazy. According to Healthline magazine, most mosquito bites are harmless but some can cause complications. Mosquitoes bite because they are attracted to human blood. The bite, which might not appear until hours later, creates a bump that is typically swollen, sore, or itchy. While there are some ointments and creams on the market to help you remedy the mosquito bites, Healthline magazine looks at some natural remedies of treating mosquito bites: 1. Crushed ice Cold temperatures and ice can reduce inflammation. The cold also numbs the skin, which can give you immediate but short-term relief. The Mayo Clinic recommends using a cold pack or a bag filled with crushed ice to relieve the itching caused by a mosquito bite. 2. Honey This sugary substance is a common pick among home remedies because it has many antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. It has been used for hundreds of years as a treatment for ailments like sore throats, bumps and bruises. 3. Vinegar For centuries, apple cider vinegar has been used as a natural remedy to treat many medical conditions, from infections to blood glucose problems. If you have an itchy bite, dab a drop of vinegar on it. The vinegar can help reduce stinging and burning sensations. It can also act as a natural disinfectant if you’ve been scratching too much. 4. Onion Onions can bring relief to your mosquito bites. The onion’s juices, which leak out from the freshly cut bulb, can reduce the bite’s sting and irritation. Onions also have a natural antifungal property that can reduce your risk of an infection. 5. Garlic Garlic is a well-known natural remedy for conditions from heart disease to high blood pressure. While more conventional treatments may be preferred for those serious conditions, a bit of garlic applied to an irritating bug bite is an easy home remedy for a mosquito bite.