THE Western Cape High Court’s Judge President John Hlope has ordered the release of Zandile Christmas Mafe from the Valkenberg Psychiatric Hospital where he was undergoing a mental observation. This is after Mafe’s lawyers challenged the lawfulness of the decision by the magistrate to commit him to a mental institution for evaluation. Hlope said the decision by magistrate Zamekile Mbalo to send Mae to the mental institution for evaluation was unlawful. He ordered that Mafe be taken out of the mental institution to a normal correctional facility where he will await his bail application date set for Saturday, 22 January. “Further detention of Mr Mafe in Valkenberg hospital is unlawful and must come to an end with immediate effect. We realised that he cannot be released now, he should be realised first thing tomorrow morning and he should be placed in a normal correctional facility and taken out of Valkenberg. That order was made improperly and unlawfully. Further detention in Valkenberg is unlawful, it should never have happened,” said Hlope. Representing the state, advocate Mervyn Menigo argued that the decision to send Mafe to Valkenberg was based on the doctor’s recommendation after he was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. He said the state would ask the doctor to come forward and justify the recommendation if need be. Mafe’s defence lawyer advocate Dali Mpofu said the doctor’s assessment was not properly done. He said Mafe was assessed on 3 January for a period that was less than 48 hours yet the law requires a minimum of 72 hours, an argument which Hlope agreed with Mpofu. “If you look at the Mental Health Care Act, there is reference to 72 hours. There’s a reason for that. The observation and assessment are not just a once-off thing. You don’t look at the person and say in my view I think you are insane. In my view you won’t understand proceedings. There is a continuous evaluation and we all know what happens there. It’s professional staff, psychiatrist and that is done for at least 72 hours. That would enable any doctor to file a report that can be safely be reliable upon by a court. That is not what we are seeing,” said Hlope.