SHE could possibly be one of the oldest people alive, but gogo Johanna Mazibuko can still talk and laugh out loud. And at 127 years old, she feels she has lived long and God can take her anytime. Although she turned 127 on 11 May last year, gogo Johanna was celebrated by her family, church and community of Extension 22 in Jourberton, North West recently. According to the church, which hosted the celebration together with the family at Lutheran Church in Extension 11, the last day of December was the perfect date to celebrate gogo’s life as most people were around during the festive season. Gogo Johanna said her secret to a long life was simply obeying her parents and following their rules. “I also love God and follow His will. That’s why he has given me many years to live,” she said. She said her favourite meal is chicken with tomato soup and rice, which she washes down with a glass of Coke. Gogo Johanna had seven children. But two daughters and three sons have died. She is left with one daughter and a son. She has 18 grandchildren, 26 great grandchildren and 26 great-great children. Her daughter-in-law Thandiwe Wesinyana (54) said when she cooked chicken for gogo, she cooked it until it was soft as gogo only has two teeth left. She said gogo Johanna also likes pumpkin, cabbage, beetroot and fish. Thandiwe said gogo is a member of the Roman Catholic Church, but goes to church after some time because of her age and because she can’t sit for a long time. “I read her favourite Bible verse John 14: 1 every day before we go to sleep and sing and pray. She asks me to read the Bible for her as she never went to school and doesn’t know how to read. “Her advice to us is not to drink a lot of alcohol and to always be disciplined. It is a blessing and joyful moment to live with such an old person as one continues to learn every day,” said Thandiwe. Neighbour Fana Mpame (49) said: “I was a naughty boy and a comrade when I started to know her in the 1990s. “She encouraged us to stop the riots and go to school so we can be educated.”