GHANA striker Benjamin Tetteh will serve a three-match suspension after punching an opponent during a mass brawl following Friday’s 1-1 draw with Gabon at the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Tensions boiled over as Ghana were enraged by a late equaliser that Gabon scored after opting not to return the ball when the Black Stars put it out of play after their midfielder Daniel-Kofi Kyereh went down injured. After a shoving match broke out on the pitch at fulltime, Tetteh took a swing at Gabon’s Aaron Boupendza. The referee summoned a Ghanaian back out from the dressing room to brandish a red card to Tetteh, with television pictures showing that he punched Boupendza during the melee. CAF on Saturday said it had decided to suspend Tetteh for one additional match on top of his automatic two-game ban. He will miss Ghana’s must-win clash against Comoros tomorrow. Ghana are third in Group C with just one point from two games. Meanwhile, Ghana captain Andre Ayew dismissed Gabon as a “small team” after their draw. Ayew’s fine early strike had the four-time champions on course to claim their first win in Group C only for Allevinah to blast in a superb 88th-minute equaliser that puts Gabon on the brink of the last 16 but leaves Ghana’s hopes on a knife-edge. “It was very small of them, but then that is how it is with small teams,” Ayew said. “We put the ball out of play, and it is fair play in football to give the ball back. Had they done that they would not have scored. They didn’t have any chances.” The result leaves Ghana with just one point in Group C, with Gabon on four and Morocco -- who secured qualification after beating the Comoros 2-0 earlier -- now certain to advance as one of the top two. “We will swallow the pill and try to win the next game, and hopefully four points will be enough to go through,” said Ayew. It was a fine result for Gabon who were again without star striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and midfielder Mario Lemina after testing positive for Covid-19. – AFP