THE WATER dripping from bodies in the mortuary has set social media on fire. And a man named Dr Strange on Twitter said this water holds the power to control people’s desires. HE SAID WITH THE DEAD MAN’S WATER MUTHI IN HAND, IT GIVES EVIL PEOPLE ENDLESS POWER. Dr Strange went on to say that it also holds the power to completely have people go into a deep sleep, and the victim won’t hear anything and holds the power to completely hypnotise and brainwash them to do whatever the person wants them to do. “It holds the power to destroy families, make you rich. Some pastors also use this water to make them powerful, and tsotsis use this to make you fall into a deep sleep so they can take everything in your house,” claimed Dr Strange. Daily Sun spoke to izangoma who confirmed that this was true and used by fake prophets and evil people, and not by genuine izangoma or gobelas. “Some people use this water for ukuthwala, especially when combined with ashes from a cremated body,” gogo Thembikile Mahlalentabeni told Daily Sun. ALSO READ |
KARATE ‘FIGHTING’ COP VIDEO GOES VIRAL! “But they don’t just use any cremated body. They use the ashes of rich people to make themselves rich.” She also said some use this water with graveyard soil from the graves of family enemies. “I know of some of these things because I’ve been a sangoma for 16 years. “I don’t want SunReaders calling me, asking me to do these despicable things,” said Mahlalentabebi. Gobela Joseph Dungamanzi said he heard of these and knew someone who said the situation at his home changed because of the water. “He used this water and graveyard soil of a family member who was rich and this resulted in his life changing for the better,” he said. ALSO READ |
BUST CHEATER: MY 4-5 SHRINKS BY THE DAY! Dungamanzi said he sometimes received calls from people asking if he could help with this. He asked some people how they got this water, and they told him that they got it from people who worked at mortuaries. “It’s evil for to me. I just feel like it’s something no sangoma should be doing,” said Dungamanzi. Moses Sydney on Twitter said he knew of a family member who’s now wealthy because of this water. “He’s even stepped away from the family because he is rich. I remember he wanted to involve my mum, but she refused,” said Moses. When Daily Sun called Dr Strange, his phone wasn’t available at the time of going to print.