FUMANI Mayinga (31) grows peppers and cabbage on a rented one and half hectare of land –and he makes the most tasty and spicy chakalaka! Fumani from Thulamahashe near Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga has gone the extra mile in farming, making the small patch of land work for him, using all the skills his beloved gogo Daina Makhubela taught him. He said working with vegetables has brought him great peace and joy, and he’s able to feed his family with the work of his own hands. Fumani named his project Manikwa Farming Project after his dad Fanie, an important local businessman. Today, Fumani Small Scale Farm in Dingleydale Village irrigation scheme outside Thulamahashe is a leading fresh pepper and cabbage producer, which supplies supermarkets and street vendors at affordable prices. Fumani qualified as a technical engineer at Tshwane South College in 2013, but started farming in 2020, after lockdown left hundreds of people jobless and Mzansi was badly affected by the economic downturn. “Farming is where my heart is. “I love working on land growing fresh veggies and supplying them to leading retailer markets, street vendors and walk-ins,” he said. “This is my calling. I enjoy farming like nothing else in the world. My dream is to become one of the most best international farmers, serving the world and fighting for food security.” Fumani said water and enough land were his challenges, but so far his small-scale farm has provided temporary work for five youth workers. “The market is huge. It is very tough for a young farmer to penetrate,” he said. Isaac Ndlovu (20) said Fumani was a great leader and also a youth who inspired them to work with passion. Maria Ngobeni (45) and Tintswalo Khoza (36), both single mums, said they were thankful to the farming project. “We are gaining a lot of skills every day,” said Maria. “Our kids will never go to bed with empty stomachs.” Tintswalo said they balanced their lives by working hard with their hands to earn money. “We are building up houses for our kids. “We send them to school and give them good clothes. Waiting for our government to give us Covid-19 grant money is a waste of time,” said Tintswalo.