SWALLOWS FC coach, Dylan Kerr, said his phone has gone “mad” with agents sending him videos of players who are looking for clubs. Kerr said he has received 250 videos since he was appointed Swallows coach in November. The Dube Birds need new blood as they are fighting for their lives to remain in the top flight, sitting in 14th position in the DStv Premiership table with 14 points after 18 matches. The club is currently assessing former Kaizer Chiefs, Black Leopards and AmaZulu attacker Ovidy Karuru. The Zimbabwean international played under Kerr with Leopards last term, after joining Lidoda Duvha at the beginning of last season. The 33-year-old is currently a free agent after leaving the Limpopo side at the end of last season after Leopards were relegated. “Over Christmas and New Year I have received over 250 videos from different agents, from different players who want to come and play for Swallows,” said Kerr. “That’s the state of football. You are not a footballer if you don’t want to wear this jersey.” Kerr was angry over the long wait for his work permit and said it was bizarre to miss four matches waiting for his work permit to be issued. The 55-year-old missed the win over his former club Baroka, losses to Marumo Gallants and Cape Town City and a draw against Orlando Pirates. Kerr’s assistant coach Fani Madida was in charge of those four matches. However, Kerr’s work permit was finally issued last month and he was in charge when his side drew 2-2 against Golden Arrows on 22 December before the season went for the break due to the Africa Cup of Nations finals. Kerr said to wait this long was the worst experience in his coaching career, as he couldn’t affect the games in the way he wanted. “It was unbelievable,” added Kerr. “No coach in the world can wait for three weeks for a work permit. Imagine Jurgen Klopp going to Liverpool and waiting for three weeks on the sidelines. “Imagine Jose Mourinho at Roma shouting from the stands! But fortunately, there was no crowd. But again, me in the stands shouting instructions (did not help) players don’t listen to people from the stands. “So it was very frustrating, where you can’t send messages across, you can’t work on tactics. You just have to trust the players and now I’m on the bench and that’s good.”