OUTGOING Maritzburg United and Bafana Bafana striker Bongokuhle Hlongwane will remain indebted to former United coach Eric Tinkler for giving him a chance. In an exclusive interview with SunSport, Hlongwane (21), who signed for Minnesota United in the Major League Soccer in the United States of America last Wednesday, also thanked Maritzburg for helping his development. Hlongwane said he never expected to be signed by an overseas club so soon and was looking forward to helping struggling Maritzburg into calmer waters this season. He revealed that the move abroad came quicker than expected, because he was hoping it was going to happen at the end of the season. Hlongwane was heavily linked with Mamelodi Sundowns. In fact, Sundowns wanted to sign him and Thabiso Kutumela before this season got underway, but both parties agreed that the former should stay on and Kutumela should go. Then talks came to light again that he was leaving the club in the January transfer window to join Sundowns. But out of nowhere, Minnesota stole ahead and signed Hlongwane on a three-year deal with an option to renew. The MLS club said Hlongwane “will be the club’s first Under-22 initiative signing, and will join the Loons pending a physical and receipt of his P1 Visa and ITC (international transfer certificate). He will occupy an international spot on Minnesota’s roster”. But Hlongwane has credited Tinkler, who handed him his debut against Orlando Pirates on 24 April 2019 when he was 18 years, old with his progress. “I’m thankful to him for handing me my debut in the PSL,” said Hlongwane. “He believed in me as a young boy by giving me a chance. But I have to thank Maritzburg for the growth and the good things they did for me. They believed in me because no-one would have known about me if it wasn’t for Maritzburg. I have now played for Bafana, something I never knew was going to happen so quickly,” he said. Hlongwane leaves Maritzburg having featured in 56 games and scored eight goals along with seven assists. Minnesota coach Adrian Heath described their new signing as an “explosive player” and someone “who has a game changing pace.” New Zealand international defender Michael Boxall, who played for SuperSport United and won two Nedbank Cups between 2015 before leaving in 2017, is at the club and Hlongwane hopes he’ll help him settle there quickly