TRAUMATISED passengers escaped death as heartless thugs armed with guns hijacked the taxi they were travelling in. The thugs fired several shots before wounding and robbing a Pakistani trader Ummat Rasool (32). This happened in broad daylight between Allandale and Rolle outside Thulamahashe near Bushbuckridge Mpumalanga on Saturday, 8 January at about noon. Rasool said he was from his other shop in Hluvukani in the Greater Manyeleti area heading to Thulamahashe in a taxi when he spotted a speeding white Isuzu bakkie with four occupants overtaking the Quantum taxi in Ludlow. “We were passing Allandale heading to Rolle when we then spotted the Isuzu bakkie and the Mercedes-Benz stopped by the dusty road ahead with the gang of men. As we were approaching, the Benz left. So fast three men jumped into the road and started firing shots forcing the Quantum to stop. The driver tried to resist, but I begged him to comply to save the people’s lives in the taxi. I knew they were looking for me as I saw some of the faces outside the shop. They ordered us to open the doors. And we did it. They dragged me out hitting me with gun butts on the head, demanding money. They quickly searched us and fled with an undisclosed amount of cash and three cellphones. I am grateful that no one was killed because of me,” said Rasool. The driver rushed him to the police and he was taken to the local hospital for treatment. The driver said: “The gang armed with guns jumped into the middle of the road and forced the taxi to stop as they shot in the air. We were cold dead inside. So fast they shot and injured the Pakistani trader next to me before robbing him of his cellphones and cash. This was traumatic.” Thulamahashe Hluvukani Acornhoek Taxi Association chairman Albert Mgiba condemned the senseless attack. “We are really disturbed and condemn the senseless attack on our defenceless customers and drivers. Heartless robbers are now gambling with our drivers and customers’ lives. We are calling on Police Minister Bheki Cele to provide more cops for our protection and ensure more police visibility in our routes and platforms,” said Mgiba. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said police were investigating a case of armed robbery after a 32-year-old Pakistan man was robbed of undisclosed amount of cash in Allandale Trust outside Thulamahashe on Saturday afternoon. Anyone with information should contact Mhala police on 013 7730 331, or Detective Warrant Officer Frank Mabunda on 072 624 5133.