Honda South
Africa notes that it set a new standard for small sedans with its Amaze way
back in 2018. Not known to rest on its laurels, the Japanese carmaker has upped
the Amaze ante for 2022 with several changes and upgrades that will undoubtedly
see the Amaze rise in popularity with thrifty yet discerning local buyers. The 2022
Honda Amaze line-up boasts enhanced exterior styling, upgrades to its interior
and a new infotainment system that will appeal to customers that enjoy
touchscreen technology. Designed as
a sedan from conception, the company's spokesmen say that the latest Amaze
remains unmistakably Honda, "but in a stylish and compact package,
well-specced, comfortable and now better suited to the needs of a discerning
market". Do you
think compact sedans make sense as family cars, or do you think a compact SUV
is a better buy in 2022? Please let us know your thoughts in the comments
section, or email us here. The engine
remains the same  Honda's
proven i-VTEC engine technology is said to ensure that the 2022 Amaze boasts
respectable performance to match its looks while delivering exceptional fuel
efficiency. The 1.2-litre four-cylinder naturally aspirated petrol unit punches
out 66kW at 6 000rpm, while the torque peak is rated at 110Nm at 4 800rpm. The
entry-level Amaze Trend derivative is available with a five-speed manual
gearbox only, while buyers of the Comfort model can opt for a Continuously
Variable Transmission (CVT). The 9 Cars
Rated 'Best in Class' for 2022, By Chris Kissell. This year's winners of the
Edmunds Top Rated Awards 2022 were chosen after an extensive testing and
ranking process that included more than 300 vehicles.  A
lightweight kerb mass of around 900kg ensures nippy performance, along with
frugal fuel consumption. Models with a manual gearbox will accelerate from
0-100 km/h in 12.3 seconds, while the CVT version requires 13.5sec to get the
job done. All derivatives have a limited top speed of 150km/h. Amaze
models with manual transmission are said to achieve a combined cycle fuel
consumption figure of 5,6l/100km, while the CVT version is a tad thirstier at
5.7-litres/100km. Two trim
levels keep things simple Trend and
Comfort models are sold in South Africa. Honda has continued with the same
three-model line-up as the previous Amaze. All three feature the same engine,
but buyers choose between two transmissions and two trim levels.  As
mentioned, the Amaze 1.2 Trend is only available with a manual gearbox, and
despite its base-model status, it boasts an impressive list of standard
features. Enhancing its already well-appointed interior is new full-black
interior upholstery. The list includes a tilt-adjustable multifunction steering
wheel, a four-speaker audio system featuring FM/AM and MP3 functionality, Bluetooth
connectivity, central locking and electrically adjustable exterior mirrors. Step into
the 1.2 Comfort versions, and you'll note colour-coded exterior mirrors and
door handles and low-mounted, recessed fog lamps as standard. However, now
differentiating the Comfort from the entry-level Trend model are 15-inch
diamond-cut alloy wheels and LED fog lights at the front. These features are in
addition to a roof-mounted shark-fin antenna and a high-mounted third brake
light that has been carried over from the previous model. Inside, the
Comfort offers all the standard features of the Trend model, but automatic
air-conditioning and automatic door locking once the vehicle starts moving are
added to the package for a more premium experience. The infotainment system of
the Comfort models has also been upgraded and now features a 7-inch touchscreen
that incorporates a reverse parking camera. Catering to tech-savvy buyers, it
features Android Auto and Apple CarPlay compatibility. 2022 Honda
Amaze pricing and aftersales support in South Africa 2022 Honda
Amaze 1.2 Trend (manual)- R209 100 2022 Honda
Amaze 1.2 Comfort (manual) - R234 700 2022 Honda
Amaze 1.2 Comfort (CVT auto) - R252 800 The 2022 Honda Amaze line-up is supported by a
five-year or 200 000km warranty, a two-year or 30 000km service plan and a
three-year Automobile Association (AA) Roadside Assistance package. Scheduled services. SOURCE: WHEELS24