AFTER public spats following the blaze gutting the Parliament precinct, Nehawu and Parliament’s presiding officers came out united and announced a ceasefire to find solutions together. Since Sunday, Nehawu and Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula have been in a war of words, with the union claiming had it not been for the withdrawal of Parliament Protection Services (PPS) staff over weekends and public holidays, the fire could have been avoided. During a press briefing, Mapisa-Nqakula denied there was ever a directive to stop protection services staff tasked with patrolling inside the buildings. The Speaker said there was no directive to stop protection services from working on weekends and public holidays as well as night due to budgetary constraints as claimed by Nehawu. However, an email which Daily Sun has seen seemingly supports the union’s version, where it’s clearly stated that protection services will not work on weekends as agreed at a meeting. It’s not clear who was at the meetings or whether Mapisa-Nqakula was aware or part of it. The email dated 25 November 2021 stated: “Dear colleagues, as discussed this morning by directive of ISSD Management, it is for consideration that PPS staff is only on duty over the compulsory period from Monday to Friday excluding weekends and public holidays.” Contacted for comment about the email and whether Mapisa-Nqakula deliberately misled the nation, Parliament spokesman Moloto Mothapo said the union and presiding officers have since ironed out their differences. Mothapo said the joint statement released by both parties would now be the official position of the Speaker. In the statement, the parties said it was agreed that meetings will be held to tackle outstanding issues.“The concerns expressed by Nehawu will be brought to the attention of the presiding officers with immediate effect. Any further information that Nehawu is in possession of regarding occupational safety and health as well as parliamentary security, will form part of the internal inquiry,” it said.