GOVERNMENT’S efforts to save money backfired badly when the
unguarded parliament precinct caught fire on Sunday, 2 January as there were no
guards inside, with only police officers serving as guards outside. Nehawu provincial secretary Baxolise Mali told Daily Sun
government gambled with the safety of the national key point when it told
protection services their services would not be required over the festive
season during weekends, as there was simply no money. Mali said this meant the heritage site was left vulnerable
because there were no guards inside to monitor any movement. “In December, they (protection services) Parliament doesn’t
have money to pay them. Had they not taken that decision to say we don’t need
you, we are fine with the SAPS, we would not be where we are now. Right now
there are a lot of break-ins to MPs offices because there are no guards inside.
The SAPS only operate from outside, they would not see what is happening
inside.” Mali said to add fuel to the fire, recommendations of an
investigation after another fire that broke out last March were simply not
implemented. When the union inquired when, if at all these recommendations
would be implemented, they were told the public works department was addressing
the issues. He said the investigation into the fire had uncovered the
smoke detectors in the parliament precinct were not functioning well and that
had to be addressed as a matter of urgency. Months down the line, this has not been attended to and if
that had been the case, the fire would have been detected much earlier before
it spread to other buildings. The fire is said to have started in the old parliament
building and spread to the National Assembly where the damage is said to be so
bad, a section of the ceiling has collapsed. Meanwhile, National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula
refused to be drawn into speculations that the cause of the fire was arson. Mzansi woke to the horror news of Parliament being on fire
on Sunday, sparking rumours that this could be a deliberate attack on the
heritage site. After it caught fire last March, Nqakula said
recommendations from a report after that incident were being implemented. She said it was too early to be entertaining unconfirmed
reports of what really started it. “Parliament is on fire. Right now the National Assembly
itself is on fire I can confirm that. On a matter which has been raised, which
talks to documents in Parliament, I hate to speculate. “But one would also be interested to understand what
happened between the National Council of Provinces building, that entire
passage, which has offices and other offices and libraries right up to the
National Assembly, whether there was fire in that area.” Updating the nation virtually as she was trying to get a
flight to Cape Town, she said it would be irresponsible to guess whether any
documents had been damaged. This can only be revealed after a full report from the
police had been received. She also said the blaze would not affect the State of
the Nation Address on 10 February.