MZANSI is shaken after senior ANC councillor and MMC for strategic management and development Nanziwe Rhulashe was seen in a video circulating on social media being dragged out of her Amathole District Municipality office allegedly by security. The video shows a group who appear to be security officials led by a woman who identified herself in the video as Phelela Phiti, a head of security. They dragged her in full view of municipal staff while she was screaming for help. The ANC in the Eastern Cape said they had seen the video and condemn the vicious attack on a public representative. ANC provincial spokesman Loyiso Magqashela said: “This behaviour is unacceptable, seeing a public representative being dragged out of office on the alleged instructions from a municipal manager and head of department can never be tolerated. “We call for decisive action against all those involved in this abhorrent display of gender-based violence and for them to be brought to book. We further call on the MEC of co-operative governance and traditional affairs to urgently investigate this despicable and distasteful act. “According to her (Rhulashe) since her deployment to lead strategic management and development, they have not had a meeting with head of department. It was only Monday when they had to meet out of a complaint she made which led to the meeting having to be delayed. She went to her office only to be met by the security instructing her to leave her office as per municipal manager and head of department instruction,” said Magqashela. Amathole District Municipality in a statement said: “It is very sad to view and read about the alleged incident that took place in Amathole District Municipality (ADM) offices on Monday, 24 January. “ADM Council including the executive management distances itself from these disturbing scenes circulating on social media platforms with the contempt it deserves. This matter will be fully investigated and as the executive mayor, I will act accordingly.” Police spokesman Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana said Cambridge police are investigating a case of assault, malicious damage to property and intimidation after an incident that allegedly took place at the municipality offices in East London. “The circumstances surrounding the incident are not clear at this stage and investigation continue.” Kinana said five suspects aged between 23 and 43 years were arrested and later released on R500 bail each. They are due to appear in the East London Magistrates Court on Tuesday, 25 January.