SEKHUKHUNE United striker Chibuike “Victor” Ohizu has taken to the DStv Premiership like a duck to water. The Nigerian-born striker had no experience in the topflight of Mzansi football before the current campaign, but that has not shown in his performances. Ohizu has been one of the deadliest strikers in the league when he’s been fit and available for selection, banging in five goals in his eight appearances for Babina Noko. The former Leruma FC and Jomo Cosmos star has admitted that he has been surprised by how well he’s been able to settle into life in the topflight. Ohizu might have full confidence in his abilities and goal-scoring prowess, but he expected to take a little bit more time to get used to the level of the Premiership. Nevertheless, the 24-year-old has no complaints and has also credited the team environment and chemistry at Babina Noko for his seamless transition. “I think I need to give credit to the coaches and my teammates for creating an environment that allows me to do as well as I have been able to do,” said the prolific striker. “I have felt at home from the first day I arrived at this club, there’s something about how everyone here makes you feel welcomed which makes everything easy. On the field of play, as well my teammates have played a huge role in my performances. They keep creating good opportunities for me and all I can do is put them away as a good striker should. “We are a team of brothers before anything else, we treat each other with respect, and we play for one another. We leave it all on the field and we have each other’s back. I think that’s the culture that’s helped us a lot this season. There are no egos, we are all equal.” Ohizu, who started like a house on fire this season before a few niggles slowed him down, hasn’t given up on his goal to challenge for the golden boot. However, he has some catching up to do if he is to displace the prolific Peter Shalulile of Mamelodi Sundowns at the top of the scoring charts. The Namibian has already scored 13 goals and will be targeting the 20-goal mark. “As a striker, you always want to finish as the top scorer. I believe I have what it takes to achieve that goal, but I all need my teammates to continue helping me,” added Ohizu.