BAFANA Bafana might have missed out on qualification for the Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon), but there will be no shortage of representation for the PSL at the tournament. As many as 17 PSL stars will fly the local league’s flag high at the continental showpiece, set to kick off on Sunday in Cameroon. Mzansi fans will not get to see their national team in action, but they will have some interest in the tourney with a host of their local favourites involved. These PSL stars will be rubbing shoulders with some of the best players the continent has produced, and will be eager to make a big impact. It comes as little surprise that SA neighbours Zimbabwe have the most PSL players in the tournament, boasting no less than eight players who ply their trade in Mzansi. But with Kaizer Chiefs star Khama Billiat now retired from international football, SuperSport United duo Kudakwashe Mahachi and Onismor Bhasera, as well as Golden Arrows marksman Knox Mutizwa, headline the Mzansi based contingent. There’s also the likes of Free State Stars shot-stopper Talbert Shumba, Venda Football Academy’s Gerald Takwara and JDR Stars’ Ishmael Wadi. The Warriors, who are going in search of their maiden Afcon title, were drawn in Group B alongside Senegal, Guinea, and Malawi. Malawi will also have a fair number of Mzansi based players in their team, boasting five players who play in the PSL. Orlando Pirates star Frank Mhango will be the headline, and he will be joined by the likes of Richard Mbulu of Baroka and AmaZulu’s Limbikani Mzava. Polokwane City pair Dennis Chembezi and Khuda Muyaba will also look to make an impact for the Flames. Meanwhile, Nigeria will boast two Mzansi based stars in their team, with Chiefs goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi and Bucs’ star defender Olisa Ndah. Ndah has caught the eye for Pirates this season, quickly becoming arguably the best defender at the club. Akpeyi, on the other hand, has seen off competition from Brandon Petersen, Bruce Bvuma and Itumeleng Khune for the number one jersey at Amakhosi.