PROTEAS fast bowler Kagiso Rabada will play his 50th Test match today when he leads the attack against India in the third Test at Newlands, Cape Town. The 26-year-old has been a revelation for the Proteas since making his debut on 5 November 2015 against the same Indians. Rabada has taken 226 wickets at an average of 22.57 and is considered one of the best bowlers in the world at the moment. But he insists that he is only getting started as he continues to hunt down Dale Steyn’s SA record of 439 Test wickets. “You can’t take anything for granted in international cricket. But for me, it’s about longevity. I don’t want to be doing well for a short period. That’s what drives me,” said Rabada. “As much as it’s about getting wickets, it’s also about being the best I can be. “And there’s no limit to that. I am nowhere near done. There are lots of ups and downs and the challenge is to keep those good performances going for a long time.” Rabada has set the standard so high for himself that he can hardly afford to be off his game without it being noticed. He needed to be sparked into life by captain Dean Elgar in the last match before delivering a match-altering spell on day three to set up the seven-wicket win that levelled the series at one-all. “I went to ‘KG’ (Rabada) and I told him you are an immensely respected cricketer within our group and at the moment I don’t think you are conducting yourself extremely well when it comes to performances,” Elgar said after the last match. “We know and I know what KG is capable of doing because he is a world-class bowler. And when KG has his tail up, there is no better bowler than him in the world.” Rabada understands that he will not always be at his best and that’s when he reverts to the basics. “I just try to keep it as simple as possible. The dry spells can come at any time and then you have to realise your strengths and improve on your weaknesses. “Remember what got you here in the first place are your strengths. I want to get the best out of myself,” added Rabada.