AMAZULU president Sandile Zungu says they were interested in signing Maritzburg United outgoing striker Bongokuhle Hlongwane. But he said while they expressed an interest in the 21-year-old Bafana striker, they were told by Maritzburg management that they had already secured an offer for Hlongwane from a club abroad. Maritzburg informed AmaZulu that they have accepted an offer overseas for Hlongwane, who they have since sold to American side Minnesota United in the MLS. Earlier this month, the Bafana Bafana international signed for the MLS side on a three-year deal with an option to renew. “It is an open secret that we wanted Hlongwane, but we were very late because Maritzburg was already sitting with an offer from the States,” said Zungu. “The club said the boy wants to go to play in the States and who doesn’t want to go and play outside the country and earn hard currencies (dollars). The boy’s family wanted to see him go to the States and the team is going to get what they wanted. We are not begrudging that but we made two great signings.” AmaZulu have signed Abbubaker Mobara from Cape Town City and Abraham Majok, who was previously playing in Israel. Zungu said they had a “huge shopping list” but added it is very sad that the January transfer window offers an opportunity to the stakeholders to make excessive demands which very few teams can meet. “They think that in the January transfer window you are (buying) out of desperation because you are seeing something that is lacking.” Zungu said the club also tried to sign Nkanyiso Zungu from Orlando Pirates, but it was out of their hands as he has a long-term contract with the Soweto giants. However, he said they have signed two players from a club that is fighting for survival in the relegation zone. Zungu revealed that the “club” informed them they cannot let them go now because they want these players to help them survive this season. Those players Usuthu are rumoured to have signed are Katlego Otladisa and Phillip Ndlondlo from Marumo Gallants.