WORLD number one tennis player Novak Djokovic was denied entry into Australia yesterday amid a storm of protest about a decision to grant him a medical exemption. The tennis star remained in Australia after his lawyers launched an appeal seeking to overturn the federal government decision. A court agreed not to deport him before a full hearing scheduled for Monday, leaving the Serbian champion holed up in a quarantine hotel in Melbourne for at least the next 72 hours. The saga, fuelled by domestic political point-scoring about the country’s handling of a record surge in new Covid-19 infections, has led to an international row, with Serbia’s president claiming his nation’s most celebrated sportsman was being harassed. “There are no special cases, rules are rules,” Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said at a televised news briefing. “We will continue to make the right decisions when it comes to securing Australian borders in relation to this pandemic.” Spanish champion Rafael Nadal told reporters in Melbourne that he felt sorry for his rival “but at the same time, he knew the conditions since a lot of months ago. He makes his own decision.” Djokovic, who has consistently refused to disclose his vaccination status while publicly criticising mandatory vaccines, kicked off the furore when he said on Instagram on Tuesday he had received a medical exemption to pursue a record-breaking 21st Grand Slam win at the Open starting 17 January. The announcement prompted an outcry in Australia, particularly in the tournament host city of Melbourne, which has endured the world’s longest cumulative lockdown to ward off the coronavirus. The move by the Australian government to block Djokovic’s entry has caused ructions between Canberra and Belgrade. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic said on Twitter he had spoken to Djokovic, giving the reassurance “that the whole of Serbia is with him and that our bodies are doing everything to see that the harassment of the world’s best tennis player is brought to an end immediately”. Morrison said he was aware that “representations have been made” by the Serbian embassy in Canberra and denied the claims of harassment. XREUTERS