CHIPPA United have decided to retain caretaker coach Kurt Lentjies for the remainder of the season following his impressive start to his tenure. Lentjies, somewhat of an experimental choice to replace former head coach Gavin Hunt, now seems a masterstroke by club boss Siviwe “Chippa” Mpengesi. This as the 36-year-old mentor has hit the ground running, promptly leading the Chilli Boys out of the relegation zone since taking over. Lentjies has overseen seven games with Chippa since taking over the reins in November last year and has only lost twice. He has two wins under his belt and three draws. The Chilli Boys currently occupy 12th spot with 16 points from 17 matches so far this season. This is a huge improvement from when he took over from Hunt, who was struggling to get the best out of the group of players at his disposal. Hunt was placed on suspension towards the end of his tenure after Chippa only managed one win from their first ten matches this season. It appeared his struggles from Kaizer Chiefs, where he was sacked near the end of last season, followed him all the way to Gqeberha. Hunt couldn’t rediscover the magic that saw him clinch three consecutive PSL titles during his time with SuperSport United, before leading Bidvest Wits to their maiden league title in 2016. Mpengesi turned to veteran midfielder Lentjies in a shock move that now seems to be paying dividends. Lentjies had played six games earlier this season before hanging his boots to take up the coaching job at the club. The club has now put its full weight behind the former Maritzburg United and Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder to lead the team until the end of the season. He will continue being assisted by Siyabulela Gwambi, with whom he’s formed a solid working relationship. “In the technical department, the team has decided to retain Kurt Lentjies as assisted by Siyabulela Gwambi for the balance of the season, following an encouraging start to their tenure after the departure of coach Gavin Hunt,” the club confirmed. Furthermore, the two will be fully backed in the transfer market with the club confirming that they would be making some signings in the current window.