MARITZBURG United coach Ernst Middendorp has given many players a breakthrough in the PSL and some of them are Siyabonga Nkosi, Musa Nyatama, Ruben Cloete, Dumisani Zuma and Thapelo Morena in over 300 matches in charge, just to name a few. The German-born coach said he found striker Andrea Fileccia idle, sitting in the stands with little game time coming his way at Free State Stars and the rest as they say, it’s history. Fileccia joined Stars at the beginning of 2014-15 season to work with his countryman Tom Saintfiet, who was appointed at the start of that season. The now 30-year-old striker made his PSL debut against Maritzburg on 30 August 2014 at Goble Park Stadium. However, in November of the same year, after 11 games in charge, Saintfiet was sacked by Ea Lia Koto with three wins, six losses and two draws with a return of 11 points. The following season, Stars appointed Middendorp in August 2015. The 63-year-old did better than Saintfiet, in 10 matches. He won five, lost two and drew three with a return of 18 points. In those games with Middendorp in charge, Fileccia was on fire, banging in the goals. He was one of the leading scorers with six goals. “I found him there at Stars sitting in the stands,’ said Middendorp on Fileccia. “Unfortunately, Andrea was never fully accepted in South Africa. He had a great skill-set. His spacing was excellent. “This tactical element you can’t learn. Again, it was a pleasure to meet Andrea.” But Fileccia, in the same season under Middendorp’s brief stint, suffered a bad injury which ruled out for the rest of that season with those six goals. Middendorp left Stars midway through the 2015-16 season to take over at Maritzburg, who were fighting for their lives. However, he saved them from relegation in the last game. Fileccia, the Belgium striker, joined Maritzburg ahead of the 2016-17 season to be reunited with Middendorp as new players alongside Maboe, Brice Moon and Bevan Fransman and Siphesihle Ndlovu, who was promoted from the club’s development. However, Middendorp, a man with an erratic personality, clashed with PSL officials and also lashed at the standards of refereeing. He then resigned on 4 November 2016 to go to Thailand. Fileccia carried on with Maritzburg, helping the club reach the Nedbank Cup final in 2017-18 season, the club’s first cup final in the PSL era. However, under coach Fadlu Davids, Maritzburg lost to Fileccia’s former club Free State Stars 1-0 in the final in Cape Town. Fileccia, who is part of Maritzburg’s history for scoring the quickest goal within a second of coming on when they beat Bloemfontein Celtic 4-0 in January 2018, has since retired from football because of injuries. Virus-free. www.avast.com