THE Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) finals will revert back to being played in June and July next year. This was revealed by the Confederation of African Football (Caf) when the continent’s ruling football body, led by Patrice Motsepe, confirmed the draw for the 2023 Afcon qualifiers will take place in Doula, Cameroon on 21 January. Caf also confirmed that the 2023 finals will be hosted in Ivory Coast. The 33rd Afcon edition got underway yesterday with a number of European clubs reluctantly releasing their African stars in the middle of their season. Now these clubs can breathe a sigh of relief as Caf confirmed that the schedule for next year will go back to what it was in 2019 when the Afcon finals were played in Egypt in the European off season in June and July. Bafana Bafana will miss the preliminary rounds due to their higher continental ranking. Bafana will go straight into the group stages. The qualifiers will start in June. Caf also confirmed the Fifa World Cup play-offs draw will take place the following day, also in Doula. Bafana, who were hoping to reach the play-offs for the World Cup in Qatar this year, saw their protest against their 1-0 away loss to Ghana thrown out by Fifa. Caf has confirmed 10 names in the draw. The 10 qualified teams for World Cup play-offs are Senegal, Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria and Nigeria in Level 1. In Level 2 are Egypt, Cameroon, Ghana, Mali and DR Congo. They will be divided into two levels based on the official Fifa ranking, published in November 2021, according to Caf. The format is the five highest ranked teams will play against the five lowest ranked teams. The first leg will be played at the home of the lower ranked teams, with the second leg played at the nations who are ranked higher. The play-offs will be played in March, with five winners representing Africa in the World Cup finals in November in Qatar. “The world is tuning in as a record number of global broadcasters prepare to beam the African continent’s showpiece football tournament from Cameroon to millions of fans,” said the confederation. In his election manifesto, Motsepe has consistently spoken about a need to ensure that African football is accessible not only in the African continent, but globally. Said Motsepe: “Afcon is our flagship event, not only as Caf, but as Africa. It is an event that is unrivalled in appeal and prestige. “We are not surprised by the huge demand from major networks globally. It’s a clear indication of the increasing popularity of African football around the world and shows clearly how Afcon has increased in stature and appeal to become one of the world’s biggest sporting events.”