ARTISTS are at it again . . . This time around, they accused Dr Sipho Sithole of interfering in their matters. The cold war of words started when Sipho sent a statement applauding Minister of Sport, Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa’s efforts to help the creative industry. Part of his statement reads: “For a while some role players in the arts sector have relentlessly attacked government and singled out Minister Nathi Mthethwa and his department, the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture. The essence of their complaint is that the minister is the primary reason the sector receives no support and that his removal will result in a different outcome. “It’s time to reclaim the sector and its image and bring such misbehaviour to a halt. It’s time to speak critical, robust, but yet constructive life back into the creative sector. Such robustness and constructive dialogue should include both conversation with government as well as the creative sector looking into the mirror and taking greater sense of accountability for some things that have gone wrong,” the statement continued. ALSO READ : FROM BIG XHOSA TO SOS! “Such wrongness including allowing destructive and opportunistic elements that are attempting to hijack genuine efforts for their narrow political gimmicks. We need to focus attention and energies of rebuilding following the devastation of Covid-19. “It’s important to start by emphatically stating that there is no grain of truth in allegations that Minister Mthethwa or his department have not shown visible commitment towards the protection and growth of the creative sector,” he said. Sipho’s statement is supported by other artists including Sipho “Hotstix” Mabuse, Vusi Leuw, Romeo Ramada, Owen Ndlovu, Kim Fenesey, Sarah Makhafula, Nozipho Nguse and Thami Mdluli. But his statement was met with criticism from other artists, including jazz singer Sibongile Mngoma, Eugene Mthethwa and Brian Mokoena. Brian, who is also the spokesman for South African Creative Practitioners in Unity, told Daily Sun he rejects Sithole’s approach. He said: “We have formations led by CCIFSA (Cultural and Creative Industries Federation of South Africa) which must stand up if need be. He cannot speak on behalf of the sector but he must do it on behalf of Sipho Sithole, Velile Sithole, Native Rhythms and DSAC (Department of Sport, Arts and Culture).” Sibongile said: “What Sipho is doing is disheartening because his corruption and failures are well documented and so he’s the last person to speak on matters of the creative industry. “His recording label does not even have artists because he always fails them. As we speak a lot of artists haven’t been paid, they are still struggling yet Sipho pretends as of everything is fine.” Sipho said he was not discouraged by the backlash. “I’m not surprised by their negative comments because they always attack the person. I will not stop talking because I have a right to raise an opinion,” he said.