DESPITE losing their opening two games of the Quad Series to netball powerhouses England and Australia, the Proteas go into their game against New Zealand on Tuesday night high on confidence. The Proteas fell apart in the opening game of the series losing, 71-47 to England at the Copper Box Arena in London at the weekend. But they showed signs of improvement against the highest-ranked country Australia in their second game on Sunday. The Proteas lost 60-40 against the five-time winners of the series, but they won the hearts of the neutrals with their fighting spirit. They trailed by two goals at the end of the first quarter, and they were four goals behind at the end of the second quarter. Australia took control of the game in the third quarter, and the Proteas pushed them in the final quarter. They will play against New Zealand in the final round-robin game at the same venue tonight (7.30pm). Skipper Bongiwe Msomi said another defeat is not an option as she urged her teammates to rise to the occasion. She said they need to step up and bring their A-game against New Zealand. “We are pleased with what we could put out. There is a lot to work on, and we need to step up and go for the win,” said Msomi during the virtual press conference. The Proteas lost 15 points because of unforced errors and stage fright as some of the players who were playing at the highest level for the first time. Msomi pleaded with her teammates to reduce their mistakes and keep their positions. “We lost more position against England and committed too many errors. We did what we could against Australia and improved on what we could not do against England. We are proud of our performance against Australia, despite losing the game. We were better in the defence and played to our strength, and it worked,” said Msomi. She said that they would stick to their game plan and try to win the game against New Zealand. “We have to hold our heads high and go into the next game with confidence. There were encouraging signs against Australia, and we need to stick to the game plan and play as a team. We have to defend better and help the others to handle the stage because they do not have much game time at this level,” added Msomi.