Mpumalanga police said they were concerned about violent crime in the province after a suspected business robber was killed on Thursday. The 23-year-old man was killed in Mangweni near Tonga. He was killed on the same day a senior police officer in the province was shot dead in a shootout with armed men in a separate business robbery in Elukwatini. Colonel Beauty Marivate, who was the station commander of Elukwatini police station, had rushed to a reported business robbery when she was shot. Five people have been arrested. Police spokesperson Captain Gugu Phiri said the man killed in Mangweni on Thursday was said to have been one of three armed men believed to have stormed into a shop in Mangweni and robbed the owner at gunpoint. She said they made off with airtime and money. "Police were informed and swiftly went to the scene, where they noticed the suspects. One of them was in possession of a firearm while another was carrying a bag," Phiri said. "Police gave chase and, in the process, the suspect with the firearm was fatally shot. A firearm was seized on the scene and the other suspect, aged 23, was arrested with a bag which had the suspected stolen items, including cash and airtime vouchers. "The third suspect managed to flee." Phiri said police were still searching for the third robber. She said the arrested man, Bongani Mahlangu, appeared in the Nkomazi Magistrate's Court on Thursday and will remain in custody until 4 January for a bail application. Police cannot rule out the possibility of adding more charges to the charge sheet, Phiri said. Mpumalanga police commissioner Lieutenant General Semakaleng Manamela welcomed Mahlangu's arrest as well as the recovery of the firearm. Manamela also raised her concern about the proliferation of firearms around the province which are mostly used in the commission of violent crime. Police have urged anyone with information on the whereabouts of the third robber to call the Crime Stop number 08600 10111 or send information via the My SAPS app. It said any information received will be treated as confidential and callers may opt to remain anonymous. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate is also probing the case.