Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) directed Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa to open up stadiums, now. As promised, the EFF took to the offices of the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture for a picket as they demanded the re-opening of Stadiums to supporters. The locked doors at the department did little to stop the scores of sports fans and EFF supporters from making their voices heard, singing and dancing demanding the reopening of Stadia. EFF leader Julius Malema said the reopening of stadiums would mean the reopening of the economy and would go a long way in easing the tight grip of poverty among society. “We are fighting for the poor women who sell at the Stadiums. I am deliberately saying women because they are in their majority. It’s these women who use the little that they make to send their children to universities and produce Doctors and Lawyers,” said Malema. “But for the past two years, these poor women were unable to do so. They were unable to put food on the table and they surrendered into poverty. The entire family swims in a pool of poverty when a mother is denied to an opportunity to provide.” Malema called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to reshuffle his cabinet and install a more “energetic” minister of Sports, Arts and Culture. “We want someone who loves Sport, Art and Culture,” added Malema. “If you look at Nathi Mthethwa, you can see that he knows nothing about these things. He has abandoned this department and we demand change.” AmaZulu director Manzini Zungu was among the guests who stood in support of Malema and the demands made by the EFF.  “We are fully behind CIC Julius Malema. We demand the reopening of  Stadiums so we can have the support of our fans,” said Zungu. “It’s not been easy to play without fans and we have seen how players feed of the energy from the supporters.” Nhlanhla Shabalala, the Secretary General of the South African Football Players Union, said the return of fans to Stadiums is long overdue. “We want the Stadiums to be open now. Our people are hungry. Everything else is open, clubs, churches and Taverns are open. Why are Stadiums still closed?,” asked Shabalala. “Our people have been vaccinated but they are still not allowed to watch football.” 