 DON’T DO IT! Don’t sleep on the tombstone. Bad things are going to happen, warned sangoma Mthimunye. But Linda Sokhela laughed at the warning and slept on the tombstone anyway but Linda is no more. HE DIED WHILE SLEEPING ON THE SAME TOMBSTONE HE SAID HE DIDN’T FEAR! While he was still alive, Linda (30) said he would carry on sleeping on the tombstone because it was very comfortable. “It’s comfortable. I’m sleeping like a baby,” he told Daily Sun in August last year. He said after his parents died in a car crash in 2014, he stayed with a relative but she sold her house, then he stayed with distant relatives, but they abused him. “I decided to go and live on the streets and see how I survive,” he said. He slept under the bridges until he and his friends found a good spot at the Langlaagte Cemetery in Mayfair, Joburg. “But my body was aching because we were sleeping on the ground. “I saw a tombstone and tried it out and I slept very well,” he said. He said he didn’t know who was buried there. “But when I went to sleep, I would consult with them and ask them to look after me and forgive him for sleeping on them.” This is after sangoma Jabulani Mthimunye had warned him. Barely three months later, Linda has paid the ultimate price. He died while sleeping on the tombstone on 1 December and was buried on 30 December at Olifantsvlei cemetery, south of Joburg. Sangoma Jabulani Mthimunye said that graves should be respected. “When someone is buried, their soul carries on living. If the person in that grave isn’t happy with what is happening, bad things might happen to Linda.” He said that Linda’s death could be the doing of the person in the grave. “He either wasn’t happy with it or he liked Linda so much that he wanted to be with him.” He pleaded with people to respect grave sites because spirits live there. “They see everything. When you disrespect them, you will pay the price.” Linda’s cousin said he left home because he was unruly. “No one abused him. He just wouldn’t listen. He chose the streets. He ran away to the grave sites where he met his death. We are very sad that he ended up dying before his eyes could open.” Linda’s friend, Justice Mtshali (33) said: “We will miss his jokes. We always laughed when he spoke to his friend in the grave.” 