THE new Jaguar E-Pace is something to behold. Not only does it boast with jaw-dropping looks but the ride comfort and luxuries are out of this mundane world. Being behind the wheel of this Jag was astonishing, and time really flew like a jaguar hunting down its prey. Its cornering is great, it doesn’t feel top heavy and the visibility is excellent. It’s also a pleasure to drive on the open road or daily driving in town. Under the hood is a 2.0 litre four-cylinder turbocharged diesel engine, which delivers 147kW. I was behind the wheel of E-Pace R-Dynamic and its all-wheel drive. The engine is mated with a nine-speed automatic transmission. There is no lag and it responds quickly when you need to overtake, especially when in sport mode.  Inside the cockpit the new E-Pace is fitted with an electronic rear-view mirror, which takes time to get used to. I loved this though, albeit any narcissist’s nightmare. It is strange though when you’re not used to it, as it feels like the car behind you in traffic when standing still is tailgating you. A nice little touch from the Brits is the safety light that goes on in the dark when you open the doors, where a Jaguar is followed by her cub. The inside is spacious and there is more than enough headroom and legroom for the driver and passengers. The E-Pace also features ambient lighting, which is becoming a standard feature in most luxury cars. There are different options to choose from. The 11.4-inch touch screen is huge and easy to use, and the Meridian sound system is pure quality. The wireless charging for your cellphone makes it easy to keep your tunes rocking. My test model had a huge panoramic sunroof as well as head-up display. It’s a luxury you quickly appreciate. The E-Pace also features lane keep assist, 3D surround camera, blind spot assist, rear collision monitor, rear traffic monitor, front and rear parking aid, and a power gesture tailgate, to name a few. The new E-Pace is impressive. This is one test car I gave back with a smile on my face but had a sore heart letting go. Jaguar Land Rover South Africa made this review possible. PRICING E-PACE R-DYNAMIC HSE Ingenium 2.0 litre four-cylinder Turbocharged Diesel - R1 056 300