FAMILIES of the three Lily Mine workers who became trapped in a mining accident five years ago have vowed to continue camping outside the mine’s premises until their loved ones’ bodies are retrieved. The families of Yvonne Mnisi, Solomon Nyirenda and Pretty Nkambule mark 1 000 days since camping outside the mine’s premises yesterday, 25 January. The families held a prayer session and a night vigil inside the mine’s premises on Monday. According to Yvonne’s father, Elmon Mnisi not much had been done to retrieve the container their loved ones were trapped in. Mnisi told Daily Sun: “We came here two years ago with the aim of pushing the government as well as the mine’s management to assist in the retrieval of the container but nothing has been,” he said. Mnisi said the day meant a lot to them. He said they were determined to continue camping as the government was failing to help them get closure. “ We suffered a lot during our first days here, but God has been with us all along. We will not move until we get the bodies of our children.” Several cases of arson were reported by the families and ex-workers after tsotsis came to torch the camp in 2020. Solomon Nyirenda’s mother Fiona Nyirenda said they would not find rest until they were given their kids’ remains. “I believe the prayers we hold here every day will one day set us free from our pain,” she said Pretty Nkambule’s mother, Lomvimbi Mavuso said her grandkids kept asking her about the progress. Two companies have offered to help retrieve the bodies. Arqomanzi CEO Neil Herrick, who is involved in the efforts to invest in the mine and retrieve the bodies, said he believed they could help the families. “We’ll publish amendments to change the business rescue plans and let the creditors of the three companies have their say on the future of the mine,” he said. “Once we take control of these assets, we will get to level five and commence the search for the container.” ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba attended the event. “I am here to assure everybody that this tragedy it is not going to be forgotten. The container is going to be retrieved whether this government likes it or not,” he said. An inquest hearing is currently being held at the Nelspruit Magistrates Court to find out what really happened on the day of the incident.