THEY DON’T KNOW IF THE CRUEL-HEARTED SCAMMER WILL BE BACK TO ROB THEM ALL AGAIN! “That woman has our IDs and Sassa cards,” said gogo Tshidi Nyembe (71). “We are terrified that she is going to leave us penniless at the end of the month!” On 1 December, the 10 elderly grant recipients lost all their money when a scammer persuaded them into believing they were going to get grocery vouchers. “We have applied for new Sassa cards, but we just don’t trust anything anymore,” said gogo Tshidi. “That woman has no conscience. To see a young person like that stealing from old people, is sad and shameful.” They said the woman, who they said had short dreadlocks and is light in complexion and is believe to be in her late 20s, made them believe she was working for a Customer Care Centre in Daveyton. “She came into our homes and told us she has been sent to look for needy families who may be eligible for food vouchers,” said gogo Tshidi. Gogo Rebecca Makwakwa (67) said the woman sounded genuine and they did not believe she would scam them. She said the scammer even suggested they use her van as they were going to come back with loads of groceries. She said two madalas and five gogos and the scammer drove to Pick n Pay in Mayfield in Daveyton, Ekurhuleni. When they got there the scammer suggested they take trolleys to load groceries. “First she told us that to get the vouchers she needed our IDs to make sure we were South Africans,” said gogo Tshidi. “Then she suggested we give her our Sassa cards and pin numbers so she could help to withdraw our money at the till so we did not have to wait in long queues.” But then they realised they had been cheated. Ekurhuleni Municipality has warned of scammers who come into homes pretending to be officials and if they had any doubts they must visit the municipality offices themselves. Paseka Letsatsi, spokesman for Sassa, urged pensioner not give their details to anyone. Letsatsi said no Sassa official will ask for their details unless they’re at a Sassa office. Etwatwa police station commander, Colonel Molatelo Maoto, advised the scammed elderly to visit the cop shop to see how best they could be helped.