Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa summed up EFF's planned "picket" to his department's offices in Tshwane as "gimmicks". In his hard hitting statement, a day ahead of the planned march on Thursday morning, Mthethwa said there's "no amount of irrationality, vulgarity or grandstanding will intimidate" him "into populist and irresponsible decision making and actions". "The country’s Covid-19 response strategy is correctly hailed across the world for seeking a balance between saving both lives and livelihoods," he said through the statement. He said the EFF is "ill-advised to assume that its theatrics will bear any fruit". "And they are advised to show respect to the basic acumen of South Africans and halt their theatrics," he advised. "The choice to picket at the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture and direct attention at the Minister on a matter based on the Disaster Management Act is quite curious and misguided. "This is particularly so since EFF is a political party represented in Parliament and various legislatures and therefore part of lawmaking. An elementary reading of the Disaster Management Act proves the fact that calling on the Minister of Sport, Arts and Culture to open up stadiums is foolhardy as much as it is bizarre. The Minister is not empowered to make any such decisions, and the EFF should know this. "And for a party that claims to be made up of academically acclaimed characters, it just boggles the mind what deduction could have brought EFF to conclude that the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is the go-to spot." Mthethwa said "it begs the question, what truthfully motivates their irrational nitpicking: "Is EFF part of a larger nefarious and dubious campaign and essentially serving as a hired gun if the price is right?" "Are they being used in a political chess game through which they will yet again use unsuspecting innocent people as political pawns? "Or again, without any inkling of rationality, are they about to yet again embark on an abusive campaign based on the belief that South Africans are easy to fool and cannot separate fact from fiction? "They should know that their ultimate agenda is transparent and easy to see. It will be responded to accordingly." With reasons given Mthethwa has distanced his department from "the decision on opening up of venues... a fact which either skipped EFF’s logic or affirms the belief that they are actually up to something more perverse and are using this matter as a launch pad towards such end". He said: "The Safe Return of Spectators strategy proposes opening to 2 000 spectators as the first phase which was accomplished in October 2021. It is intended to scale up to Phase 2, 3 and the last phase at 50%, 75% and 100%, respectively. The initial target was to be at 75% by now. Unfortunately, the emergence of the Omicron Covid-19 variant made this target unachievable by the initial time-frame." Sport minister slams EFF’s march over stadiums as ‘populist theatrics’: Minister of sport Nathi Mthethwa has described the planned picket by the EFF outside his office in Pretoria on Thursday as ill-advised and populist theatrics. https://t.co/fpXjrS7HDg 