THE judging panels for the 2022 Naledi Theatre Awards have been announced. They started their term on 1 January and it will end on 31 December. The exact dates have not been announced but the nominations will be announced in February. The CEO and executive director of the Naledi Awards, Lihan Pretorius, said: “Naledi Awards are looking forward to an incredibly busy and fulfilling year ahead and are quite optimistic to recognise and reward excellence in theatre in line with the vision and honouring the legacy of Naledi founder, the late Dawn Lindberg.” Lihan’s statement was echoed by Naledi chairwoman Kgomotso Christopher, who said: “Primarily, we are looking forward to a year of theatre, innovation and hopefully a return to a semblance of normality in our decimated industry.” Director of judging panels Renos Spanoudes said: “The panels for 2022 are truly representative of the theatre industry. The Naledi Theatre Awards are excited by the incredible diversity and breadth of theatrical knowledge that the newly constituted judging panels represent. ALSO READ : ENGAGED RETHABILE’S OVER THE MOON! “As our industry slowly opens up, we are also very happy to announce that the awards ceremony for the combined years in review of 2020 and 2021, as a singular judging cycle will take place during May 2022, with the nomination announcements to be made by the end of February 2022,” said Renos. The full list of the Naledi executive team and judging panels have been elected and confirmed as follows: Naledi Board of Directors 2022: Kgomotso Christopher – Chair Sello Maake Ka Ncube – Deputy Chair Lihan Pretorius – CEO / Executive Director: Legal Des Lindberg – Executive Director: Technical Renos Spanoudes – Director: Judging Panels Chris Avant Smith – Director: Public Relations, Strategy and Marketing Anthony Chait – Consultant: Finance, Audit and Risk. Management committee Lihan Pretorius – CEO / Legal Renos Spanoudes – Judging Panels and related matters Chris Avant Smith – Strategy and Sponsorships Dayle Littlefield – Administrative Manager Awards nominations and winners voting auditor(s) Marno Coetzer CA (SA) Plays and musical theatre 2022 Gregory Goss – Convenor AJ Opperman Alby Michaels Annelize Hicks Chris Avant Smith Johan van der Merwe Lance Maron Lihan Pretorius Maralin Vanrenen Marie-Heleen Coetzee Nita Cronje Ntambo Rapatla Obett Motaung Renos Spanoudes Sibongile Mngoma Taryn Henning Tebogo Ditinti Thabiso Tshabalala Thea Gafin Dance, physical theatre and ballet 2022 Ignatius Van Heerden – Convenor Debbie Rakusin Kelsey Middleton Owen Lonzar Sonia Radebe Independent/fringe theatre 2022 Chet Diepraam – Convenor Gillian Wittstock Gregg Pettigrew Lehlohonolo Peega Lesego Moalafi Thamsanqa Mbongo Tertiary/incubator theatre 2022 Johan van der Merwe – Convenor Lihan Pretorius Lungile Themba Ratanang Mogotsi Renos Spanoudes Thabiso Tshabalala Children’s theatre (supported by Assitej) 2022 Thea Gafin – Convenor Chubeka Nongwana Darren Meltz Ratanang Mogotsi Shira Milstein Tsholofelo Shounyane