The gate of the premises of a community hall in Phola Park Village near KwaMhlanga in Mpumalanga was set alight, allegedly by a group of residents who became enraged when it emerged that the ANC registered the wrong candidate for the November 2021 municipal elections. Nkangala ANC regional spokesperson, Sello Matshoga, told News24 on Friday that the party had mistakenly registered Mable Mabanga at the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) last year. Mabanga is now a councillor in Ward 6 of the Thembisile Hani Local Municipality. Matshoga said this was despite the fact that many ANC members and supporters in Phola Park and the entire ward six publicly backed another ANC member, Sipho Mahlangu, as their preferred candidate during the build-up to the elections. "We submitted the names of Mable and Sipho to the IEC through our provincial and national leaderships, and Sipho was at the top of the book," said Matshoga. "We then realised that Mable was registered as a councillor, but she is not the person that ANC members and the community preferred. We made an error in the registration in our internal processes, and we are busy correcting it. We promised the community that we will go back to them and resolve this matter." Mahlangu told News24 on Friday that he was badly hurt when he learnt that the ANC had erroneously registered Mabanga, instead of him. He said the hall gate was burnt on Thursday and the incident left him fearing for his life. "The community preferred me to become their councillor," said Mahlangu, adding: I prepared to be photographed for election posters. I was shocked when I was told that Mable was the registered candidate and her face would be in the posters. I'm now scared because there is a rumour that the hall was burnt by my people, but that is not true.Phola Park resident James Mthombeni appealed to the ANC to urgently find a solution to the problem, saying it might affect service delivery if it persisted. "Some of our streets are in a bad condition and they will not be fixed if this fight continues for a long time," said Mthombeni. Matshoga said Mabanga would remain a councillor for now and the ANC would publicly engage Ward 6 residents on whether they wanted her to continue as their councillor. He said a proportional representation councillor would also be sent from the Thembisile Hani Local Municipality to Ward 6 to help with service delivery. “If community members say they don't want Mable to continue as their councillor, she will resign and a by-election will be held to elect a new councillor. We condemn the burning of the hall gate, but we cannot say it was burnt by ANC members," said Matshoga. Mpumalanga provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Selvy Mohlala, said he was not aware of the burning of the hall gate. Mabanga declined to comment, referring queries back to the ANC.