PRESIDENT
Cyril Ramaphosa has promised to step out of the way should he be fingered in
the Zondo Commission report. Ramaphosa
told journalists during the handover ceremony of part one of a three-part
report in the Union Building on Tuesday, 4 January that he was a man of
integrity and would not interfere with the investigations. He said:
"In my own history where I am conflicted, I have sense of integrity to
step out of the way to say I'm conflicted on this and I have ingrained that in
the way I do things so that fingers should not be pointed at one about favoring
oneself when you are conflicted." Ramaphosa
urged law enforcement agencies to go ahead and do their work if they find some
evidence of wrongdoings in the report. He said the
handover marked the beginning of the final phase of the commission’s work,
which will culminate with the submission of the remaining parts of the report
by end of next month. "I
wish to thank the many people who gave evidence before the commission, and the
whistleblowers who spoke out against wrongdoing, sometimes at great risk and
cost to themselves. Lastly, I wish to acknowledge and commend the actions of
the South African people, whose shared determination to end corruption and
demand clean governance enabled the establishment and work of the
commission," said Ramaphosa. The
president said he will submit the full report to parliament by the 30th of June
with an indication of his intentions on how to implement of the recommendations. He said
each part of the report will be put up in the presidency website immediately
after he received it for public to read it. "We
will, however, commence with the consideration of the parts of the report as
they are submitted to the Presidency, and will be putting in place appropriate
mechanisms to effectively and thoroughly process the findings and
recommendations," he said. Chairman of
the commission acting chief justice Raymond Zondo said it was a special day for
him as the commission was able to deliver to the president part one of the
report. "It's
been a grueling four years for the commission. I know that most of you, if not
all, would have liked that today we are handing over a complete report, but it
has not been possible," he said. Zondo said
part 1 has 3 volumes and volumes 1 deals with SAA and its subsidiaries. Volume
2 deals with the Gupta-owned newspaper, New Age, and its advertisements with
state-owned enterprises while Volume 3 deals with Sars. Ramaphosa
received the report electronically on 31 December. The
ceremony went ahead after an urgent application to halt it was struck of the
roll by the high court in Jo'burg. Judge
Avrielle Maier-Frawley ruled earlier on the day, that the matter brought by
Democracy in Action (DIA) lacked urgency. “From
January 2021, the applicant formed the view the president has been implicated
and would not be the right person to receive the report. But they sought no
legal recourse and waited a year to bring proceedings, on the eve of the
ceremonial handover of the report. Why the delay?” asked the judge before
dismissing the matter with costs.