SUNSPORT can confirm that Vuyo Mere has joined TS Galaxy. Mere has been snatched by Galaxy after he left Swallows FC in the past couple of days. The Bloemfontein-born player is the third to have been signed by the bottom side Galaxy after the acquisition of Shane Roberts and Lefa Hlongwane. The 37-year-old fell out of favour with Swallows, after he was allegedly to have stood up for other players who were said to have been paid half of their salaries with the Dube Birds. After his actions, Mere then suffered consequences, as he was overlooked by Swallows coaches such as Brandon Truter and Simo Dladla. The former Mamelodi Sundowns right-back last featured for the Dube Birds against Chippa United on 24 October last year. He was on the bench against Sekhukhune United in November but ever since then he has not been part of the side which is eight matches now. However, Mere, whose deal was expiring at the end of the season with Swallows, who he helped return to the top flight in 2020 after winning the GladAfrica Champions title in a dramatic fashion, has decided to part ways with the club and joined Galaxy. Mere has been around the block, having made his PSL debut in 2001-02 with Hellenic. He then joined Benoni Premier United, then Sundowns where he won two league titles and the SAA Supa 8. He also had a brief spell with Swallows in 2010-11, before joining Platinum Stars the following season. He was a cut-hero in Phokeng, winning the MTN8 and Telkom Knockout trophies under Allan Freese in the 2013-14 season in seven years at the club before the Dikwena were relegated in 2018. Mere then left to join Bidvest Wits in the 2018-19 season, but after 20 league matches, he was let go at the end of that season to join Swallows ahead of the 2019-20 season. Mere, since the turn of 2006, has played in 379 matches and scored 10 goals. Mere, having been capped nine times, was part of Bafana’s Ted Dumitru side that lost all group stages matches in the 2006 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) in Egypt, where Bafana also came home without scoring a goal.