THE unions at the forefront of the Clover strike said they were worried about the attacks on their shop stewards. They said three cars belonging to shop stewards were petrol bombed over the weekend in an apparent attempt for them to end the strike, which started last year in October. The unions, General Industries Workers Unions of South Africa (Giwusa) and the Food and Allied Workers Union (Fawu), condemned the petrol bomb attacks on striking Clover workers and threats made against Clover shop stewards. In their joint statement, the unions said: “Giwusa and Fawu, whose members have been on strike at Clover since 22 November, are dismayed that some of our members and shop stewards in Gauteng are being petrol bombed and threatened. “On the night of Friday, 7 January, a striking worker’s car was petrol bombed. On the night of Saturday, 8 January, another striking worker’s car was petrol bombed. On the night of Sunday, 9 January, five carloads of men visited two striking workers and demanded that they end the strike. Also, on the night of Sunday, 9 January, another three striking workers received threatening phone calls at 11.45pm demanding that they end the strike.” The cars were petrol bombed in the area of Joburg, City Deep and Clayville respectively.  “The unions are very concerned that the attacks and threats may be the work of the employer or of strikebreakers aligned to their interests.” On Monday, the unions emerged victorious at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) in Joburg after it handed down a ruling against Clover and in favour of the unions, stating that all striking workers whose bonuses were cancelled by the company must be paid these bonuses by Friday, 14 January. One incident has been confirmed. Tembisa police spokeswoman Constable Patricia Mgijima confirmed that a case of malicious damage to property has been opened at Tembisa Police Station. She said a complainant said he heard noises outside his house in Winnie Mandela. He said when he went out there was the smell of petrol and suddenly there was fire. He said he screamed for help and was assisted by the neighbours to put out the blaze. “No suspects have been arrested so far, investigations are continuing.”