METRO police headquarters have been struck by crime multiple times. And Joburg Mayor Mpho Phalatse has blamed the lack of police urgency in dealing with these crimes committed over the past few years. Phalatse said in the most recent incident on 24 January, an infamous female suspect, known to the police and the city, was again captured on CCTV cameras. “Her identity is known to the SAPS, so is her residential address. I would be surprised to learn that she has not been arrested as yet,” said Phalatse. During these criminal acts, Phalatse said 30 computer hard drives were stolen from two departments, Group Legal and Development Planning, on the third and sixth floors respectively. She said desktop computers were ripped apart and hard drives removed and stolen. “I am greatly disappointed at the lack of urgency shown by the police, and the criminal justice system at large, in dealing with crimes that have been committed at the Metro Centre – the headquarters of the City of Joburg – over the last few years,” said Phalatse. She said: “The city’s group forensic and investigation services unit, established that, inside the building, fire exit doors were used to gain further entry, allowing for easy access to both floors using a goods lift.” Phalatse said at this stage is still not clear how access was gained in the latest break-in, but it was found that the break-in and theft took place between 10pm and 2am. “What is infuriating is that the suspect is known to police, and the city. Ironically, this is the same suspect that was involved in a break-in on the 14th of October 2020. At the time, this individual targeted the third, fourth and fifth floors of Block A at the Metro Centre,” said Phalatse. “On another occasion, she was again identified loitering in the building and was arrested by JMPD (Joburg Metropolitan Police Department) officers. The suspect was positively identified and detained at the Hillbrow Police Station. “One would consider this an open-and-shut case but the criminal justice system appears incapable of acting with the necessary speed,” said Phalatse. Phalatse has pleaded with the Gauteng police commissioner Lieutenant-General Elias Mawela to ensure this matter is given the necessary attention. “Given that key state institutions and buildings have come under attack in recent years, months and weeks, it is imperative that the SAPS demonstrate its ability to deal decisively with crime,” she said. “I assure residents of the city that I will follow up on this matter, to ensure justice is done and that the rule of law triumphs once more in the City of Joburg,” she added. Phalatse said stringent security measures will be introduced at the Metro Centre, including limiting the public’s access to sensitive areas around the parameter of the City’s head office and implementing equally stringent management of all possible points of entry. Police are yet to comment on the matter.