AWARD-WINNING DJ and producer Mobi Dixon pays tribute to house music on his new album, When House Was House. The Bhutiza hitmaker, whose real name is Mabi Ntuli, released the album last month and he told SunBuzz it was inspired by his love of the genre. “The vision of the album was to highlight all the different sounds and influences of house music over the past two decades. “The album is painting a picture of different textures of house music. I felt like people were forgetting and not giving house music the credit it deserves,” he said. “They are turning their back on the genre, and it is the foundation all of these genres like sub-genres like kwaito and amapiano. When House Was House isa reminder of the time where house was the only thing that mattered,” he said. Mobi has worked with different artists from Berita, Phelo Bala, Sun-El Musician, Bongane Sax, DJ Big Sky, Letang, NaakMusiQ, actress Zola Nombona and radio and TV personality Masechaba Khumalo. “I worked with a lot of people. Guys whom I’ve been vibing with for some time and people I’ve recently met. I also worked with Masechaba, and it was an interesting one. We’ve been friends for a while. She’s been wanting to pursue singing and we finally did it. The collaborations were organic for me. It was about connecting with people at the right place and time,” he said. ALSO READ | DINEO SCORES NEW GIG The musician spent more than R250 000 on the music video for the title track, When House Was House and he said it was a worthy investment. “From the beginning of the year, my plan was to come up with something strong and meaningful. I wanted to end the year with a bang. So when I told the director of photography about the song, he had to go put together a budget and an idea for the video. “When he came back and said the music video might cost that much, we decided to give it a shot. “We believed in the song so much that we put the money towards it. “Looking at the video now, I am more than happy. It was worth every cent, and I know that it will last for decades. It’s something my kids will see and be proud of because you can see a lot of work was put in,” said Mobi Dixon. When House Was House is available on all digital streaming platforms.