DESPITE the uncertainty of Zimbabwe’s participation in the Africa Cup of Nations (finals), SunSport can confirm that it’s all system go for the Warriors under coach Norman Mapeza. The uncertainty came after the Zimbabwe FA (Zifa) board members were accused of misusing Covid-19 relief funds, along with sexual abuse allegations and turning a blind eye on match-fixing accusations, among other transgressions. This threw Zimbabwe’s participation under threat that they might be thrown out of the tournament and Zambia, who finished third in the qualification group, might step in. However, that hasn’t happened and Zimbabwe showed their intentions clear by travelling to Cameroon 10-days before the tournament starts. The Zifa restructuring committee appointed by Sports Recreation Committee has done its part by paying the players in advance, something that has never happened before. Captain Knowledge Musona said they want to qualify for the knockout stages for the first time in their history. They will first have to go past Group B favourites Senegal at the Stade Omnisport today (3pm), who will be without defender Kalidou Koulibaly, goalkeeper Edouard Mendy, Famara Diédhiou, who all tested positive for Covid. Zimbabwe, who are aiming to win their first match at the Afcon finals since the 2006 edition when they shocked Ghana in Egypt, will be without Jordan Zimura. Musona told Caf online: “I have already played at two Afcon finals without progressing to the knockout stages. Doing it now will mean a lot to me as an individual, and to the whole team, because it will be historic for every player. “It’s an opportunity for us to show that we can perform at big tournaments like Afcon.” However, Zimbabwe are without injured Aston Villa’s strongman Marvelous Nakamba, former Orlando Pirates versatile Marshall Munetsi and Brendan Galloway. Khama Billiat, who retired from international football in November, declined the Afcon invitation. “It’s unfortunate that we are missing some players who were with us during the qualifiers because of injuries and other issues, but I think we still have the quality to compete with any team,” said Musona, who will play his 50 game for Zimbabwe if he plays against Senegal. “I definitely think we are going to have a good tournament, especially with the preparations that we have done so far, and what we will still do in the remaining days.”