 A MAN (30) was killed by an angry crowd on Sunday, 23 January for allegedly raping a 13-year-old in Buffelshoek Village outside Acornhoek near Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga. The drama unfolded after he and his alleged accomplice, who has not been found, allegedly broke into a house on Sunday where the two siblings were sleeping in separate bedrooms. It is alleged that when the 15-year-old brother tried to save his sister, the suspects threatened to stab him with a knife as they dragged his sister away to another house where the young girl was allegedly raped by one of the suspects and the girl managed to run away after the suspect fall asleep. She ran back home and told her grandmother, who then alerted the community. The community went out searching for the two suspects and managed to find the suspect who allegedly raped the girl. He was at home. He was assaulted and taken to a sports ground where they continued assaulting him, and later one of the community members allegedly shot the suspect dead. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said: “The victim, aged 13, and her brother, allege that they were asleep in different bedrooms in their house when they suddenly heard a noise. “They said when they woke up they saw two men who pointed a knife at them and they dragged the 13-year-old out of the house. Her brother said he tried to rescue her but the two threatened him with a knife. “The matter was reported to the community members, and they swiftly responded. But they couldn’t find the victim, she only came back in the morning and reported to her grandmother that she was taken to an abandoned house where she was allegedly raped by one of the suspects. “But she said she managed to escape after the suspect fell asleep after raping her and she also mentioned the name.” He said the matter was reported to the police and a case of kidnapping and rape was opened. “But around 2pm our members on duty received a complaint that the community members were assaulting a man at Buffelshoek sports ground and they swiftly responded to the scene. “Upon arrival at the scene they found a 30-year-old suspect in a pool of blood, with visible injuries and gun shots to the head. Medical personnel were summoned, and they certified him dead at the scene,” said Mohlala. He said preliminary investigations revealed that the community members took the suspect from his house for allegedly raping a 13-year-old. “They then took him to the sports ground and assaulted him. A case of murder was opened, and investigations continue,” he said. Any information regarding this case can be forwarded to Captain Tabodi Sekgobela on 083 206 6316. 