TV AND radio personality Dineo Ranaka poured cold waters on claims of refusing to pay make-up artist Felicia Zwane. According to Felicia, Dineo hired her to promote her make-up brand last year and they agreed on an R500 hourly rate, but she was shocked to only receive R1 000. But in turn, the Metro FM personality has accused Felicia of theft when speaking to Daily Sun. According to the star who recently underwent initiation to be a sangoma, on the days Felicia worked, make-up worth R3 000 went missing. “As a business, we have to investigate that. I communicated with her, and she tried to get cocky with me and I then left it to my team to resolve,” she said. According to Dineo, the reason for late payment is because they battled getting an invoice out of Felicia, because she tried to extort money from them way beyond industry rates for make-up sampling at their pop-up store. “Only today I received an email with an official confirmation of her invoice, as well as a compensation fee for her transportation costs,” Dineo said. ALSO READ | MPUMI MZOBE INVOLVED IN ACCIDENT She said she wouldn’t just decide not to pay someone or pay half as that wasn’t how she operated, saying she had ethics and treated every business agreement as professionally as possible. “I run an entire production company that pays almost 100 professionals’ salaries. I’ve worked with many make-up artists over my career and made many payments to many whose services I’ve employed. I don’t see why I would stop at this young lady. I’m no newcomer to business. In my businesses, we work ethically and professionally.” Dineo said the reason why Felicia might be on a mission to blacken her name was because she unfollowed her on social media and it might have offended her. Also speaking to the People’s Paper, Felicia, who is now being accused of stealing make-up, said Dineo was lying and said the products that were used on display did not even amount to R3 000 as she claims.“She knows that is not true, I can’t believe a woman would literally go that route and try to ruin my name like that. It took her a whole month to realise her make-up went missing?” she said.“I have no idea where she is getting the R3 000 from and it’s funny that whatever that’s missing amounts to almost what she needs to pay me.”