 A man has
been arrested after he killed his ex-girlfriend's child, that of his sister,
and attempted to kill two more siblings in a brutal incident. The
gruesome murder happened on Tuesday evening when the 40-year-old suspect took
four cousins to a nearby bush and hanged them with a wire. According
to the family, the mothers of the four cousins who are sisters had left the
children in a shack in Boipatong, Vaal south of Joburg. When the
wanted suspect found the two sisters, not at home, he then took the children not
far from the shack and tried to kill them all. Fortunately,
two survived the heinous murder while two of the children, one of the children
died at the scene. Two of the
cousins succumbed to the hanging. While a 7-year-old son was rescued by cops
after the hanging. Upon
arrival, cops found two children already deceased and one unconscious. Daily Sun
visited family home in Lusaka, Boipatong where the parents shared details of
the gruesome killing. Speaking to
the People's Paper one of the mothers said she had went to see her boyfriend
and left her two children together with her sisters. "Together
with my sister we were out to see our lovers who stay in the same yard. We were
fetched by neighbours telling us that something bad had happened to our
children. When we got to the scene, we found one of my son and that of my
sister's wrapped with foil," she said. "We
were only today later how my sister's ex-boyfriend killed them and tried to
kill the other two children," she added. Gauteng
Provincial cops spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Mavela Masondo said he is expected
to appear in the Vanderbijlpark Magistrates Court on Friday, 21 January. Gauteng
provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Elias Mawela has commended the
police officers who traced and arrested the suspect. “Dealing
with crimes against women and children remains a priority for the police in
Gauteng. “The
investigating officer will present a watertight case against the suspect to
ensure that justice is served,” Mawela said.  