MEDIA personality Mihlali Ndamase has broken the internet again. “Your girl landed a role in a movie, check out Boxing Day on Showmax,” Mihlali announced on social media. The news that the YouTuber and makeup artist scored herself a small role on Showmax’s film Boxing Day has set social media abuzz, leaving many with a bitter taste in their mouths. They said there were many deserving people who could have landed the role, but Mihlali was chosen because of the “pretty privilege”. According to Showmax, the movie, which has a star-studded cast including the likes of Zola Nombona, Hamilton Dlamini and Phumlani Magadla, follows the life of a young woman, Nonceba, played by Zola Nombona, who has just lost her gogo. She’s under pressure to find money for the funeral and then her brother comes up with a hare-brained scheme to kidnap a government minister and his wife, for ransom. ALSO READ | UNATHI LEAVES SOCIAL MEDIA DROOLING Reacting to the news, people suspected Mihlali was hired for marketing purposes. Bruno Sigwela said: “I don’t think Mihlali Ndamase is an amazing actress. Yeah, she had a cameo appearance on Rhythm City and that skit with Lasizwe was cringy as well. However, I do get why she’s in that movie: she’s a huge brand and she’s probably used to market her wide audience.” Chris said: “Mihlali Ndamase who can’t even do simple acting on Lasizwe’s YouTube channel scores an acting role on a movie on Showmax. The South African entertainment industry will remain rotten.” Lesedi Nxumalo said Mihlali did nothing wrong. “As South Africans we are the one’s driving this trend. Let’s do better and support creativity instead of popularity. ‘Cause in all honesty Mihlali didn’t do anything wrong. She was given an opportunity based on how we as consumers react to popular faces,” said Lesedi. Mihlali said landing a movie role on Boxing Day, on a platform like Mzansi Magic signified growth for her career. “Starting off with a role on what was one of the leading soaps in our country, to now a mainstream channel really means that I must be on the right path. Backlash for broadening my skills as a public figure comes with the fruit of being a personality. Honestly, I don’t mind it. 