AMBITIOUS Marumo Gallants owner, Abram Sello, is still clearing the debts he inherited from Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM), almost a year after buying the club. The pharmacist bought the club from Masala Mulaudzi in January last year and inherited millions of rands in debt. Sello told SunSport yesterday that the Polokwane-based outfit is not out of the woods yet as they are still dealing with cases that date as far back as 2016, and faced with the challenges of settling former players’ contracts. “We are far from being debt-free and taking it day-by-day,” said Sello. “We are getting emails from players claiming they did not get their settlement of 2016-17 even today. We are clearing those contracts that we are not sure if we are liable for. “I’m not debt-free, but have to show leadership, character and to handle the situation. “We owe this player and have to pay that player. We are negotiating with them. It’s the situation at the moment.” But the hands-on boss said he is up to date when it comes to paying salaries for his players and their match-day bonuses. “We do have internal problems like any other club, and we solve them internally. But we pay our players their salaries monthly on time. We negotiate bonuses,” said Sello. Sello is optimistic that his team can still recover from their bad start to secure a top eight finish in the DStv Premiership. The Sekhukhune-born businessman opened up about his mistake to hire French coach Sebastian Migne as Dylan Kerr’s replacement at the start of the 2021-22 Premiership campaign. The move backfired, and the Limpopo-based outfit got off to the worst possible start in their Premiership campaign. Former TS Galaxy mentor Dan Malesela came in to steady the ship and took them off the foot of the table. The Limpopo outfit are 11th on the log table with 19 points from 18 matches, and slowly moving towards safety. “We had an up and down start. We can still finish in the top four or top eight. I hired foreign coaches, who found the going tough. They were defensive and played the style that we did not expect. “The team failed to gel under them. They left one-by-one when they saw that they are failing. “We brought in the local favourite Malesela, and we will stick with him. He hit the ground running and won a couple of matches. “No more foreign coaches. We hope the club does well under him, but it depends on his luck and tactics. Dan must make us competitive in the league,” said Sello, who holds meetings with the coaches and players weekly and attends every game. Yesterday, he watched a friendly game against a local team, and he promised to assist the coach to beef up the squad. “We are not opening the cheque book, but adding a few new players. I am happy with the new coach, and we get along,” Sello added.