THE battle for the DStv Diski Challenge (DDC) title resumes this weekend. The reserve league returns with a host of exciting fixtures to kick off this year’s action. And perhaps none more exciting than Orlando Pirates locking horns with Mamelodi Sundowns on Sunday at Lucas Moripe Stadium. As is usually the case when these two giants meet, sparks are expected to fly when they resume their bitter rivalry. Pirates will be desperate to resume the campaign the same way they finished – on a high note. The Young Buccaneers have so far been the team to beat, leading the pack at the summit of the DDC standings. They will be eager to hang on to top spot where they currently boast a three-point lead ahead of second-placed Stellenbosch FC The young men from Cape Winelands are hot on Bucs’ heels, and the Soweto giants are aware that any slip up on their part could be costly and see them relinquish their top position. Sundowns, on the other hand, will hope to do themselves and the rest of the chasing pack a big favour by taking points from the leaders. Surprise Moriri’s charges are eight points behind Pirates and currently occupy fourth spot on the log. But before that epic battle, a KwaZulu-Natal derby between Maritzburg United and AmaZulu will kick -off the year’s action on Saturday at Harry Gwala Stadium. Usuthu, DStv Diski Challenge Rewired champions, will look to ride their new-found wave of momentum having picked up 11 points in the last five matches heading to recess. They currently sit in 11th position with 12 points from 11 matches and seem to have recovered from a horrendous start to the campaign. The Team of Choice, on the other hand, are still searching for some form of consistency and will hope it comes this year. In other matches to keep a keen eye on, SuperSport United face Cape Town City on Saturday. Matsatsantsa a Pitori coach Thabo September said his players are in high spirits and ready to produce the goods. “The players are in good spirits and health so we’re looking forward to continuing where we left off in 2021,” said September. “Cape Town City are a tough challenge but we’re playing at home and that must show.” DStv Diski Challenge Fixtures Saturday Maritzburg United v AmaZulu Stellenbosch FC v TS Galaxy Marumo Gallants v Chippa United SuperSport United v Cape Town City Royal AM v Kaizer Chiefs Sunday Baroka FC v Golden Arrows Sekhukhune United v Swallows FC Mamelodi Sundowns v Orlando Pirates