 The journey to motherhood can be a pleasurable and memorable experience, but this can be overshadowed by high blood pressure. This is because uncontrolled hypertension prior to pregnancy or hypertension developed during pregnancy poses a health risk to both mother and unborn baby. High blood pressure accompanied by protein in the urine, as well as swollen ankles, fingers and face are symptoms of a serious condition called pre-eclampsia. If not detected and controlled it can cause low birth weight or require early delivery of the baby. Pre-eclampsia can also be very harmful to the mum, and can cause seizures, damage to the kidneys, liver and brain and increase the risk of stroke. “We have seen a 33% increase in high blood pressure problems during pregnancy worldwide and one in six maternal deaths in South Africa stem from hypertensive disorders. “Hypertension can also create serious problems like heart disease in children during their lifetimes,” said Dr Vash Mungal-Singh, CEO of the foundation. Factors that increase hypertension risks during pregnancy include high blood pressure during a previous pregnancy, obesity, being under 20 years of age or over 40 years old, having diabetes and other chronic illnesses, and having been pregnant with more than one baby. Severe headaches and visual disturbances are warning signs that require an urgent visit to your clinic. How can women with existing hypertension prevent problems during pregnancy? Firstly, control your blood pressure, and speak to your doctor or nurse when thinking about falling pregnant. Discuss with your doctor how hypertension might affect you or your baby and how to adapt or change any current blood pressure medication. Continue to monitor blood pressure regularly throughout your pregnancy as advised by your doctor or clinic. Make sure that you eat healthily, limit salt, be active, and avoid alcohol or tobacco. Taking a calcium supplementation can prevent pre-eclampsia. How can women be sure not to get hypertension or pre-eclampsia during pregnancy? Visiting your doctor or clinic regularly are important, but you should also: