INVESTING your hard-earned cash in a car can be scary. It’s always a good idea to do some research on your car preferences to ensure you’re getting the best car for your lifestyle and needs. Doing some homework around car values and what kind of information you need before buying it, will also help. Here are some questions to ask the car salesman: 1. The history of the vehicle It is important to know as much about the history of a vehicle as possible. Find out if it is new or used. If it’s used, ask how many previous owners it had and where it comes from. Find out if it’s been in any accidents or had repairs done. Ask to see all paperwork and ensure it’s up to date. 2. The current state of the vehicle The important information here is how old it is, its mileage and if warranties or service plans are still valid. Check the vehicle service history. Take a good look at the exterior and interior of the vehicle, including brakes, tyres, oil and air conditioning. Ask the car salesman to open the bonnet and have a good look inside and check the safety features. 3. Find out possible additional costs Chat to your car salesman about any other costs which may be added to the vehicle’s advertised price. These could include dealer fees, documentation fees and delivery fees. If you want to include add-ons, such as roadside assistance or insurance, remember to get an upfront quote. 4. Get the most out of the test drive Test driving a vehicle before buying is very important. This is your chance to see if it truly fits your needs. Ask how many times it’s been test-driven and if you can test the vehicle on the highway, especially if you do a lot of highway driving. At the same time, get the dealership to do a trade-in assessment on your current vehicle and chat to them about the finance and trade-in options available. It’s also a great time to negotiate the best possible price. 5. Living with the vehicle Before you commit to a car, you should work out its long-term ownership costs, including depreciation, insurance, maintenance, and servicing. Look at fuel consumption and whether it’s a high-risk vehicle. Get your insurance company to check its risk status. Call them to get a quote on what it would cost to insure it. Motus.cars advises buyers to ask all these questions before any purchasing decision to not only enable you to find the car of your dreams, but also ensure you are satisfied with your decision in future.