FORMER PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma went out of his way to help the Guptas get their hands on public money. “The removal of GCIS head, Themba Maseko came at great cost to the country,” says Part 1 of Zondo’s report. “IT SHOWS HOW FAR ZUMA WAS PREPARED TO GO IN ORDER TO ADVANCE THE AGENDA OF THE GUPTAS.” The report says Maseko was one of the few government officials who was willing to stand up to the pressure from the Gupta family. Maseko was removed after the former president gave instructions to late minister in the Presidency, Collins Chabane, to remove Maseko and replace him with Mzwanele Manyi. “The finding that Zuma gave Chabane an instruction to fire Maseko or move him out of GCIS is of great significance in understanding Zuma’s role in state capture and advancing the interests of the Guptas and his family at the expense of the interests of the people of South Africa,” said Zondo.  Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo handed over the State Capture Report to President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday afternoon and was immediately made public.  The report also found that Zuma gave instructions to ambassador Bruce Koloane to facilitate the landing of the Gupta commercial aircraft at Waterkloof Air Force Base in Pretoria in 2013. “Zuma was prepared to throw Maseko, his own comrade in the ANC into the street just because he had refused to be party to a corrupt arrangement sought by the Guptas.”  He said the commission heard evidence that suggested that Zuma could do terrible things to give effect to the wishes of the Guptas.  “He fired minister Nhlanhla Nene because Nene was not co-operating with the Guptas and they wanted Nene fired,” said Zondo. “Zuma got himself involved in the suspension of executives in Eskom, which led to the removal of three of them and they were replaced by Gupta associates.”  Zuma refused to fill the position of Group Chief Executive Officer of Transnet for over two years because he wanted Siyabonga Gama for that position. He said Zuma testified in the commission that he came up with the idea that the Guptas start The New Age newspaper.  He said TNA serves as an example of the way state capture took hold in South Africa. “President Zuma had an interest in the success of the media business of the Guptas,” he said.  Zuma did not finish giving evidence at the commission and refused to come back, even after he had been ordered by the Constitutional Court. He was sentenced to 15 months in prison for contempt.  “Zuma fled the Commission because he knew there were questions that would be put to him which he would not have been able to answer,” said Zondo.  Zondo also made adverse findings against former SAA chairwoman and current chairwoman of the Jacob Zuma Foundation, Dudu Myeni.  The commission recommended that the NPA should consider charging and prosecuted Myeni for fraud. 