Bayern Munch striker Robert Lewandowski also has Bafana Bafana skipper Ronwen Williams to thank after having voted for him to win the Fifa Best Player of the Year award. Williams told SunSport that he was impressed with his consistency and ability to keep scoring goals at the ripe old age of 33. Those are some of the reasons the SuperSport United skipper voted for the Polish international star, Lewandowski, as his first choice. He said the Bayern striker was a cut above the rest this past year. Lewandowski was crowned The Fifa Best in Zurich, Switzerland on Monday for the second straight year. Bafana coach Hugo Broos also voted for the Bayern striker. It is a great honor and pleasure to receive the title of FIFA The Best Men's Player ??Thank you for your votes and your support ??#TheBest @FIFAWorldCup @FIFAcom pic.twitter.com/GdLwawCNK8 Williams explained to SunSport: “I chose him just for the fact that he did it the year before and again this season. He also improved his scoring record in Bundesliga and because of his consistency.” "It is amazing a striker of his quality and his age (33) still scores so many goals at the highest level and break records.” National team coaches/managers and captains are allowed to vote for The Fifa Best award. ???? #TheBest FIFA Men’s Player Award 2021 goes to #RobertLewandowski! ?????? Fans, players, coaches and journalists have spoken, naming @lewy_official as #TheBest! pic.twitter.com/21hfIDR3rI “If you look before Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi were doing it for more than 10 years, but in the last few years they are slowing down a bit,” he said. “But Lewandowski is (still) doing it now consistently and that is what people look for - consistency. It is for other guys to catch up.” Meanwhile, Williams has revealed that it is painful watching the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) finals in Cameroon while Bafana are not there, assuring that the country will qualify for the 2023 edition in the Ivory Coast. “It still hurts but we got to move on and focus on the future,” said Williams who has earned 26 caps for Bafana. 