THE lawyers of Zandile Christmas Mafe, who is accused of burning Parliament, are challenging the magistrates court decision to send him for psychiatric evaluation. This after the matter was heard on Saturday, 15 January at the chambers by the Judge President of Western Cape High Court John Hlope. On Tuesday, 11 January, Magistrate Zamekile Mbalo referred Mafe to Valkenberg Psychiatric Hospital after the state argued that he was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Mafe’s attorney Luvuyo Godla, who was with advocate Dali Mpofu, said they are challenging the decision made by the magistrate’s court. “We are coming back (to the high court) on Tuesday (18 January) for the court to determine whether the referral which was made by the magistrate on the 11th in terms of Section 77 is lawful or unlawful. ”He added that the actual bail application will be heard next Saturday but on Tuesday, they will challenge the decision of placing him in a psychiatric hospital. “In our law in South Africa, you can never remand someone in custody for the purposes of the bail application for more than seven days,” said Godla. National Prosecuting Authority spokesman Eric Ntabazalila said: “The bail application did not take place. The reason is that there is an issue of referral of Mr Mafe to Valkenberg Psychiatric Hospital. The defence is going to amend its motion to include that they want to challenge that referral to Valkenberg. We had to deal with that first.” The Western Cape High Court was cordoned off by police and protesters were kept on Long Street, about 100 metres away. Only a few journalists were allowed inside the court. Phumzile Jack, the spokesman of the Black People’s National Crisis Committee that was supporting Mafe outside the court, said they are gatvol with police. “They block us from even getting close to the court. We are not allowed to enter inside the court to witness the proceedings. This is unheard of, if there is nothing to hide they must let us in. “The state failed to protect Parliament, all it should do is to let our brother out on bail and stop using him as a scapegoat for their failures,” said Jack.