FORMER Isibaya actor Andile Mxakaza has spoken up about his break-up with amapiano singer Lady Du. He said witchcraft caused their break-up. He posted a video, saying there’s a person who has been attacking Lady Du and using witchcraft on her. Since the couple announced their break-up on Sunday, 9 January, they have been trending on social media. After the announcement, Andile shared a video saying he wanted to explain the reason for their split. “There are people harassing Lady Du, and have been doing that for a long time. I also got tired of it. Women use witchcraft and I don’t want to name and shame, but I know the person who did this, and they are continuing to do it,” he said. The actor said there have been times where they couldn’t sleep and had to pray because of the witchcraft. ALSO READ : DJ KOTINI HASN’T HAD IT EASY “I am telling her to stop doing this for the last time. Stop harassing the poor woman because she’s in a relationship with me, you’re harassing her and using witchcraft on her. There are days where we don’t sleep, praying because she can’t see, she gets hurt too. Please stop this, I’m begging you,” said Andile. “She has done a big thing for me, she has helped me see who I am. I didn’t know who I was, but when she came into my life, she taught me and showed me who I am. All those who are attacking her are doing it because they see I know who I am now. Stop this because we know who you are. Stop being witches. If you want to use witchcraft on someone, let it be me because it’s me that you want.” Lady Du hasn’t responded to Andile’s video. Announcing their break-up, Lady Du said: “I am not one for gossip. This is from my heart, we did not break up, we followed our hearts and that meant separating before things went south. I’ve had attacks from people I didn’t even know, people making me uncomfortable because of culture, people attacking my character, scratching my cars. So I decided it’s best I follow my heart and leave my relationship.” A post shared by Andile Mxakaza (@andilemx)  