ACCORDING to sangoma Solly “gogo Mahlasela” Mathebula from Mamelodi East in Tshwane, the future’s not looking bright for Mzansi. Gogo Mahlasela told Daily Sun his bones showed him there will be a lot of fighting in the country, especially for service delivery. He said there will be a lot of fire, with people burning things? because of dissatisfaction with government. Gogo said the country should also expect more arrests, especially among high profile people. He said before things get better, they will get worse. “We are going to get surprised by the people arrested this year. But before that happens, South Africa is going to burn, with the youth fighting hard due to lack of jobs.” He said his bones also showed him there will be an attempt on the life of a prominent person. “I would like to send a stern warning to our President Cyril Ramaphosa, that he should be very careful with the people around him because plots are being created to try kill him.” He said the plots were being done by people inside his party. Gogo Mahlasela said this was because he sees a lot of people being fired in Parliament, which will make them angry. Speaking on taxi violence, Gogo said there will be a lot of killings in the taxi industry. He said with celebrities, he also sees a lot of deaths especially among the senior celebrities. When it comes to sport, he said Mamelodi Sundowns will continue to do well and with cricket, the Proteas will also do well, even though some issues still need to be fixed internally. “From rugby, I see one of our players leaving South Africa to go play in Europe permanently, but it’s going to be a white person.” He also said more women will die at the hands of their lovers. But according to the traditional healer, all is not bad. He claimed the economy was going to improve this year and Covid-19 will no longer cause havoc, which will help to create jobs. “Although we will be stuck with Covid-19 forever, things will go back to normal, stadiums will soon reopen.” He said for things to be well in Mzansi, unity is needed. “All this could be avoided if people work together.”