DURING the Tshegofatso Pule murder trial, Muzikayise Malephane confirmed to the court that he had been leading a life of crime. He said his past life included stealing cars and doing house robberies, which was why Ntuthuko Shoba was afraid of him. “Shoba knew that I was living a gangster life; that is why he wouldn’t mess with me. That’s also why I was confident that one way or another, he would pay me,” said Malephane. When Shoba’s statement was read to the court, Malephane dismissed it as lies. Shoba claimed that the two were not close to a point where he could use him as a confidant for such a sensitive matter. Shoba claimed that he met the witness through a man, only named as Swagga. He said he bumped into Malephane during lockdown at a traffic light and they exchanged greetings. Then he asked him how he was surviving because people wanted alcohol and cigarettes. When the traffic light went green, he told him he would get his phone numbers from Swagga. Shoba said the only reason he went to Malephane’s house was to buy illicit cigarettes. But Malephane denied the claims, saying he was only selling alcohol. Shoba’s statement further told a different version of events on 4 June. He claimed that he and Pule listed baby items, then she said she was ready to leave. When he said he would request an Uber for her, she told him that someone was on their way to fetch her. He then accompanied her to the gate, where a Jeep came to pick her up. He said he wasn’t close enough to the car to see the driver, but the way Pule interacted with him, it appeared they knew each other well. He said he later called to check why she didn’t indicate that she had arrived home. He apparently tried unsuccessfully until he was alerted that she was missing. Then he went to offer his statement to the police and showed video footage. Shoba agreed that he bumped into Malephane at Builders Warehouse unplanned, but never had a private conversation or discussed any payment. Malephane’s cross-examination has been concluded. A cellphone analyst from SAPS is expected on the witness stand on Monday, 31 January, to help clarify records of both Shoba and Malephane.