Rising star Thabiso Bapela has scored himself a major acting role. The actor has joined the cast of SABC2’s drama series Giyani: Land of Blood as Dr Kwena Mogashoa, a pathologist who mysteriously ends up in Giyani. Nobody knows anything about him or his past. Speaking to SunBuzz, Thabiso, whose role in the show is currently shaking things for Manoku (played by Rami Chuene), said stepping into his character’s shoes has been a blast. “He’s basically a crook who is conniving and manipulative, and who has been exciting for me to portray because that’s the total opposite of who I am. “I have been enjoying the challenge and the growth that comes with it,” he said. The 35-year-old actor has also appeared on Gomora, where played a Dr Molamu. When asked if he doesn’t feel like he’s being typecast, Thabiso said no. “As actors, we need to understand our strengths as much as our weaknesses. ALSO READ |MREKZA JOINS CELEBS EKASI Looking at roles such as doctors and lawyers, they require someone who is very believable and articulate and I fit the brief,” he said. Thabiso said although the characters are both doctors, they are completely different from each other. “Dr Molamu is an honest man who loves his job, cares about his patients and has a solid relationship with them,” he said. “Meanwhile, the doctor on Giyani is the opposite,” said Thabiso. “He is an opportunist and money is what makes him tick. He is not even passionate about his job. All he cares about is money.” Thabiso, whose first major acting role was on Generations: The Legacy where he also played a doctor, told SunBuzz that although he has been lucky with landing roles in big TV shows, his journey has not been easy. “We see the work that artists do on stage or on TV but we don’t get to see the nos that they have received to get to that stage,” said Thabiso. “So it hasn’t been easy but all the challenges and uphill battles that I went through definitely prepared me for this moment.” Thabiso said his story has just begun and his goal now is to go international.