 SUPERSPORT United has have announced the departure of star midfielder Teboho Mokoena to Mamelodi Sundowns.Mokoena, who turned 25 on Monday, joined SuperSport from the Harmony Sports Academy in the 2014-15 season. In his stay with Matsatsantsa A Pitori, Mokoena played close to 200 goals and scored over 20 goals. SuperSport CEO Stan Matthews said Mokoena would remain a "special son" of the club as he wished the 25-year-old well in the next chapter of his career. "Teboho has served our club with distinction since joining us in his mid-teens. He has helped us win four major trophies and has consistently delivered on and off the field of play which is why our Chairman Khulu Sibiya gave his blessing for this move," Matthews said. "He has made us proud by representing South Africa from Under 17 to the Under 23 Olympics team and now Bafana Bafana. He was PSL young player of the year and is a fantastic role model for young players to follow in how to manage a professional career in sport. As a young man, he gives generously of his money and time to the communities where he grew up."He will remain a special son of our club alongside special names like Kamohelo Mokotjo, Daine Klate, Kermit Erasmus and Ronwen Williams. While we are obviously very sad to lose him as a player, we are delighted for him that he has earned himself a big move to a great club and wish him the best of luck at this crossroads in his career. " Teboho becomes the second player to join Sundowns from Matsatsantsa in the 2021/22 season, following in the footsteps of defender Grant Kekana. “Personally I am proud of this milestone in my career, to move from SuperSport United to Mamelodi Sundowns, Mokoena said. "It was an easy decision for me to make because this club showed interest in me and it was also a club that I had hoped to play for. I like their style of play, the way in which they are dominating the league and on the international stage as well.”  Thank you @TebohoMokoena28 for your contribution, we wish you all the best in your future endeavors ?? pic.twitter.com/kctpfvV2Af 