ROYAL AM boss Shauwn “MaMkhize” Mkhize has described 2021 as a roller coaster year for her. This after she had initially won the GladAfrica Championship only to lose the top spot to Sekhukhune United via the boardroom after the Championship was decided in court. After her club got a draw in the last match of the Championship, MaMkhize celebrated thinking she had clinched promotion to the DStv Premiership. However, her victory was short-lived as there was an outstanding matter to be resolved by the PSL. Sekhukhune were awarded three points after Polokwane City were found guilty to have contravened the Under-23 rule when these two sides met in January and Sekhukhune were confirmed as winners of the Championship. That meant AM as runners up had to go to the three match promotion/relegation play-offs against Richards Bay FC and Chippa United. MaMkhize defied the PSL and did not honour the play-offs, claiming AM are rightful winners of the Championship. She continued with a court battle and while it was clear that she was not going to be playing in the top flight football, MaMkhize splashed the cash to purchase the status of Bloemfontein Celtic. The transaction happened a week before the season got underway. “It has been an amazing year and of course, there were ups and downs,” said MaMKhize. “I started fighting to get my place in the premier division and then I was in the top division. As much as it has highs and lows, overall it has been a good year.” Royal AM ended the year on a fine note, doing the double on Kaizer Chiefs beating Amakhosi 1-0 at home in their final match of 2021. They defeated Chiefs 4-1 in the first round. “Today I have Makoti, today my team is sitting up there in the top half, it’s a nice feeling,” she added. It is unusual for a team in their first season in the Premiership to beat Chiefs twice.“You can’t beat Chiefs twice, home and away. To us it is a milestone. Chiefs are a big team,” she said. “We are the newcomers, This is adding to our achievement. In fact, it is the biggest achievement we ever had.”