WITBANK Magistrates Court has heard how the wife of slain Mpumalanga cop, Sergeant Joseph Kutu masterminded his murder. Patricia Kutu (28) appeared in the court on Thursday, 6 January. She was bust last month alongside Xolani Ndabezitha (39) and Vincent Langa (39). They are facing a murder charge following the shooting and killing of Kutu in July. Captain David Maboko told the court Patricia organised hitmen to carry out the job. He said they charged her R35 000, but she allegedly paid them R7 000. Maboko said Ndabezitha’s cellphone data revealed he was in constant contact with Patricia. He said on the day of the incident, Patricia called Ndabezitha and later drove to Kwaggafontein, where Ndabezitha and Langa live. He said GPS coordinates show they drove from Kwaggafontein to Kutu’s house, where the shooting happened later. The accused allegedly took Kutu’s two state firearms. Kutu was attached to the tactical response team. He said during their arrest, Ndabezitha allegedly confessed they were hired by Patricia to kill Kutu. Ndabezitha and Langa have since abandoned bail application after allegedly getting threats from Patricia. Maboko said Patricia’s gown, as well as her hands were found to have traces of gunpowder, meaning she was close to the shooter. He said more arrests were likely. Patricia’s defence lawyer, Advocate Tumelo Pelusa, told the court that Patricia, on the day of the shooting, prepared supper and later ate with her husband while they were watching TV. She said she took painkillers and went to bed. When she heard noises like fireworks and went to check what was happening, she found her husband lying in their living room with a gun shot wound at the back of his head. She rushed to the neighbours for help. She said no evidence linked her to the crime. “It’s only gossip,” she said. State prosecutor Fridah Tshwane said the accused hasn’t explained how gunpowder ended up on her clothes. “There is direct evidence linking her to the crime like cellphone records, gunpowder residue and witnesses who saw the men leaving the house,” she said. Mpumalanga Community Safety MEC Vusi Shongwe, who attended the hearing, raised concerns about recent incidents of police killings in the province. “The decision on Tuesday will show the law in this country is still in charge of everything,” he said. The case was postponed to Tuesday, 11 January for bail judgment.