SUNSPORT has learnt that Maritzburg United are interested in having George Maluleka on loan from Mamelodi Sundowns. A few days ago, SunSport revealed Sundowns were looking at loaning out Maluleka, who has fallen out of favour with the Tshwane giants, with only two league subs equivalent to 15 minutes this season. Last season, the former Chiefs midfielder only started five league matches, one cup and one in the Caf Champions League. This season, Sundowns coaches Manqoba Mngqithi, Rhulani Mokwena and Steve Komphela are preferring Andile Jali, Haashim Domingo and Rivaldo Coetzee in the central midfield, where Maluleka was brought in to operate. But the former Ajax Cape Town midfielder, who signed a five-year deal when he joined Sundowns from Chiefs in June 2020, has yet to start a league game. In fact, as Sundowns look unstoppable at the moment, they are comfortable with those three and Maluleka, if he wants to take out one of them, has to work hard. But things are not looking good for him and his only option is to go out on loan as his age (32) is no longer on his side to be idle. An insider said Maritzburg United are interested in George Maluleka to have him on loan. However, Sundowns manager Yogesh Singh said the club has not had any discussions with any player. “We haven’t discussed any player going out on loan. Our players are only coming back on 13 January and we haven’t discussed anything with our technical team.” It doesn’t come as a surprise to see Maritzburg express an interest in Maluleka. When Chiefs were battling with Sundowns for the league title in the 2019-20 season, Maluleka was a very important player for the Soweto giants under current Maritzburg coach Ernst Middendorp. However, after his departure, they decided to let him go because his commitment was going to be questioned. But Chiefs were not the same and could not hang onto their lead as they lost the league title. Middendorp, just like Maluleka, was let go by Chiefs. Secondly, the Brazilians have a sound relationship with Maritzburg. Last January, Sundowns signed Rushine de Reuck and before this season got underway, Sundowns also signed Thabiso Kutumela. Sundowns’ motive to loan out Maluleka to Maritzburg is aimed at getting Bafana Bafana forward Bongokuhle Hlongwane either in this window or at the end of season.