THE Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is
investigating a cop who is accused of raping a gender-based violence victim in
Cape Town. It is alleged that a woman went to open a case at the
Brackenville Cop Shop on Sunday, 9 January after she was allegedly assaulted by
her boyfriend. It is alleged that when she arrived, cops did not attend to
her despite her being at the cop shop for a long time. She then went back home where the perpetrator was and on her
arrival, the perpetrator allegedly continued to assault her. While at home she called cops again and the officer arrived
to assess the situation. He then told her that he was taking her to a safe space and
removing her from her place. Instead of taking her to the safe space, the officer
allegedly repeatedly raped the woman and threatened her with death if she spoke
to anyone about the alleged rape. The officer is alleged to have filled a J88
for the woman to allow her to open a case and also go to the hospital to be
treated for the assault injuries. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in Cape Town described the
officer’s alleged actions as “inhumane” and have demanded action against the
cop. “The EFF in the Cape Metro will not let this crime go
unchallenged, we will fight until justice for the young girl is served. We wish
to register our disappointment and anger on the SAPS and Ipid for the failure
to arrest their own criminal up until this point. Therefore, we call on the
Western Cape Commissioner of Police and Ipid to immediately arrest this sex
predator and rotten potato who tarnishes the name of the police service,” said
the EFF in a statement. IPID spokesperson Grace Langa confirmed they are
investigating the incident. “Ipid confirms it is investigating this case, we are at an
advanced and sensitive stage of finalising the investigation. We cannot at this
stage divulge particularity regarding the investigation but will update the
media at the appropriate time,” said Langa. Last month, an officer from Nyanga SAPS was suspended for
allegedly raping a theft suspect who was suspected of stealing clothes in a
shop at a mall in Philippi.