The
government says it intends to fix the controversial and unreliable driver's
licence system by going digital. Transport
Minister Fikile Mbalula has assured motorists that his department will soon
launch a new digital licence renewal system. The
department faces a huge backlog of drivers waiting for their new driving
licences. Last week,
Mbalula said the machine used to print new licences was broken. He said the
machine was old, outdated and undergoing repairs in Germany. The
department can't issue any new licences until the machine is fixed. 'Significant
progress' Addressing
the media on Tuesday, Mbalula said processes to digitalise driving licence
renewal procedures were in the pipeline. "In
addressing driver competency and putting in place measures to eliminate fraud,
we are making significant progress in rolling out computerised learner's
licence testing. "Through
the RTMC (Road Traffic Management Corporation), we are augmenting the capacity
of Driving Licence Testing Centres (DLTCs) and will be launching online
services in February 2022 to improve service delivery and minimise the need for
a motorist to visit a DLTC a number of times. "This
would mean motorists are able to access services in the comfort of their
homes," said Mbalula. The process
will include online eye-testing, and the eye test result will be automatically
uploaded and linked to the user application. "Long-term
interventions include integration of driving licence simulators into the
testing procedures. This will entail testing the motorist's level of knowledge
of the motor vehicle and road rules before getting into the car," Mbalula
said. "The
recording of the driving licence testing and digitalising test results will
also be part of this innovation. This will also include new functionality to
complete the renewal of driving licences online," he added. The
minister claimed that the publication of the 2022 RTMC regulations would assist
in implementing measures to curb lawlessness on the roads. "The
regulations introduce online services for booking learner's licence tests,
renewal of driver's licences, motor vehicle registration, licensing and online
vehicle licence renewals. "This
will aid in addressing the corruption associated with the issuing of these
licences and or rendering of the services," Mbalula said. SOURCE:
NEWS24 