AMAZULU president Sandile Zungu says Kaizer Chiefs were "dishonest" and not playing ball by taping his star midfielder Siyethemba Sithebe. Zungu said Chiefs did not formally inform them that they are interested in the player, whose contract with Usuthu will expire in June. The president said the Chiefs originally did not even send a letter to them to inform the club they are talking to the player which is what they were supposed to do. When Chiefs finally sent a letter to Usuthu that they are talking to Sithebe behind the scene, Zungu said it was already too late to counter that as Amakhosi had already changed the player’s mind. According to SunSport sources, Chiefs expressed an interest in Sithebe in July when the player was playing in the Cosafa Cup with Bafana Bafana. A Chiefs staff member who was part of the Bafana side informed the player that he should reject Usuthu’s overtures and wait until he is left with a six months contract and sign a pre-contract with Chiefs. “Chiefs weren’t honest in the deal because they agreed terms without the January window being opened in signing a pre-contract (when the player is left with six-month),” said Zungu in a media briefing yesterday when he unveiled Abbubaker Mobara and South Sudan striker Abraham Majok. “In December when we were on holiday, they had completed everything with him and you know the window is (only) open on 1 January. I told Bobby Motaung (Chiefs football manager) that I’m not happy at all about this. “Yes, Sithebe is going to Chiefs if they have concluded everything with him or at the very least at the end of the season. “If they want to take him now, we inform them that this is what we want. And we still reserve our rights to take legal actions to the highest court.” Zungu said the player will not play again for Usuthu because in the second half of the season and has informed Chiefs that if they want him now, they can pay the fee. “He won’t wear the Usuthu jersey again in the second half of the season,” said Zungu. “That’s shows we are not very happy about the way he’s leaving the club. This one exploded and it smells bad, and the reason for that is because of his agent and the club (Chiefs) that wanted him.” Sithebe joined Usuthu from Mbombela United at the beginning of 2017-18 season.He is part of DStv Compact Cup for Amabutho that will face Dinaledi in the third place play-off at FNB Stadium tomorrow that is likely to be the last time he plays officially this season before he joins Chiefs in July. Motaung told SunSport that he will "respond appropriately and at the right time". 