STELLENBOSCH FC coach Steve Barker says they have still to decide whether they are going to renew the contracts of veteran defenders Robyn Johannes and Marc Van Heerden and that of veteran midfielder Granwald Scott. Barker who is currently in charge of Coastal United in the DStv Compact Cup who reached the final on Saturday, says those decisions will be made at the end of the season when the trio’s contracts expire at the end of the season. Johannes, who also worked with Barker at AmaZulu, signed a rolling contract at the beginning of the season but missed the majority of the first part of the season due to an injury. It was the same story with Van Heerden, who Barker also worked with the University of Pretoria and AmaZulu, and Scott. Stellies coped well without them as they were enjoying a dream start to the season going to 11 games without a defeat before that unbeaten streak was stopped by Orlando Pirates in November. This has put doubt over whether they will be kept next season as Stellies bright start continues and they are lying third on the DStv Premiership table with 29 points after 18 matches. “It’s still a long way to go before the end of the season,” said Barker. “Those decisions will be made at the end of the season. Currently, they are still part of our plans.” There are positives for Johannes. The former Orlando Pirates treble winner is part of Barker’s Coastal United team that was voted by the fans, but he blotted his copy book when he was sent off in the 3-0 win against Dan Malesela’s Dinaledi in the semi-final of the Compact Cup played at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday. One player that has carried Stellies on his shoulders is Ashley Du Preez. The forward is the club’s top scorer in the league, having netted five times. Du Preez also impressed Barker when he scored in the win over Dinaledi. “He has done well, he’s growing, getting more and more experience,” said Barker. “This season there’s more composure (from him), so he has done well for us and hopefully there’s more to come before the end of the season.”