AT 17 YEARS old, the teenager who was still in primary school had once again failed grade 7. And when the principal refused to promote him to grade 8, the enraged boy couldn’t take it any more. NOW THE TEENAGER IS BEHIND BARS, CHARGED WITH ASSAULT, INTIMIDATION AND OTHER CHARGES! When the principal refused his demand to be promoted, he didn’t go back to class. Instead, he apparently lost his temper, intimidated the principal inside his office and caused chaos by allegedly assaulting and spraying other pupils with sanitiser. For the first years of his young life, the boy from Phiphidi Village outside Thohoyandou, was well-behaved and respectful. But then, his life was disrupted when his parents started fighting at home in 2016 and they eventually got divorced in 2017. At the time the boy became angry and got involved in street fights. Maluta Ramodolela from Duthuni Village told Daily Sun he’s tried over the last six months to help the boy by showing him love and guiding him to change his behaviour. “He told me life was not good at home after his parents got divorced,” Maluta said. He said he wasn’t surprised when the boy allegedly went on the rampage at the John Marubini Primary School in Phiphidi Village on Thursday. In a video shared on social media platforms, parents can be seen at the school, saying they were picketing as a child had closed their school. The pupil handed himself over to the police after he realised angry men in the village were baying for his blood. Tidimalo Chuene, Limpopo education spokeswoman, told Daily Sun they had a report that a pupil was displaying unbecoming behaviour. “Parents and cops had to be called for intervention. The incident is regrettable as it is threatening school safety,” she said. Limpopo police spokesman Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the boy handed himself over to a cop shop and was charged with intimidation and assault. “He has already appeared in the Thohoyandou Children’s Court yesterday (Monday) where the matter was postponed to the 15th of February 2022,” Mojapelo said.