MEDIA personality Unathi Nkayi is joining Joburg community radio station STAR91.9FM after being fired from Kaya 959 three months ago. The news was announced by STAR91.9FM on Tuesday, 15 February. Unathi starts her show called All Star Drive on 1 March. “STAR91.9FM is proud to announce that Unathi Nkayi will be joining the station’s star-studded lineup come 1 March. Unathi will join Justin Toerien on the All Star Drive 3pm to 6pm weekdays – so fasten your seatbelts because you’re in for the DRIVE of your life!” said the station. Unathi said she’s looking forward to presenting the show. “Expect loud, funny, passionate, bold – oh and did I mention loud? We are eager to make magic on the airwaves and guarantee a good laugh all the way home. I am looking forward to a fresh new format of radio I have never before attempted. To be able to speak to my community, from my community and for my community – priceless! Being able to speak to a multicultural community is also something I’m truly excited about because that’s the heart of radio – the heart of Joburg,” she said. ALSO READ : SJAVA: FRILLY UNDIES ARE A NO-NO! Station manager Caren du Preez said she’s worked with Unathi before and was looking forward to working together again. “I have worked with Unathi in the past and I’m honoured to give this STAR the platform she deserves to shine brighter than ever! Listeners will get to hear her in a way they’ve never experienced before: free, liberated, motivated, focused and unlimited,” she said. Unathi made headlines and was trending in November when it was announced that Kaya let her go. At the time, the station didn’t mention why it parted ways with her, but it was reported she fell out with presenter Sizwe Dhlomo and it was taken to the HR department. Sizwe then admitted he had a disagreement with her and it led to her dismissal. Taking to Twitter at the time, he said he was shocked by the drama between them because he thought they were friends. “We did get along, nami that’s why I was surprised. Do you know she’s the reason I’m at Kaya? She is literally the one who DMd me and asked if she could give Greg my number. So every interaction you heard was sincere,” he wrote in a tweet. Later, he shared emails and audio recordings of what transpired between them.