SLAIN music producer Sandile Mkhize was laid to rest on Saturday, 19 February. The media personality, best known as DJ Citi Lyts, was described as kind, loving and warm-hearted during the intimate funeral service held in Soweto, that was also lived-streamed. Citi Lyts died on Monday, 14 February, after he was ambushed by a group of men who shot at him. He died on the scene. Speaking on behalf of the family, Palesa Vilakazi said they were thankful to everyone who had come to celebrate the DJ’s life. “We are grateful for all the love, support and words of comfort and encouragement shown to us in this difficult period of our lives,” she said. She further said they were still trying to make sense of the sudden and tragic death. “We are deeply saddened and angered by this senseless loss, especially in such close succession of the passing of his older brother, Linda (ProKid). Parents should not outlive their children, and no one should lose their child in such a violent manner. Although those who took our son from us are yet to be found, their freedom is short-lived; we are confident that justice will take its course.” ALSO READ |BLUE SHARES PREGNANCY JOURNEY According to uncle Peter Zondo, Citi Lyts was shot 10 times, with most bullets to the head. “Because of the state he was in, we couldn’t sleep nor eat; it was bad,” he said. In attendance was also his partner Charmaine, who said this was not the way she wanted to bid farewell to the love of her life. He thanked him for the time they shared together. “Thank you for loving me, caring for me and taking the time to understand me. I shall forever carry you in my spirit and pray for you. I want you to know that I’m not angry at you. I’m just disappointed that you didn’t stick to the plan to come home. This is not how I wanted to say goodbye, but farewell my love; until we meet again.” The DJ’s friend Nathi Ndlovu said he could not believe that he had to bid farewell to him. “Sandile was like a younger brother to me. We have shared so many memories together, and it’s so sad that today, we have to say goodbye to him,” he said. Other speakers included friends Red Button and award-winning musician Emtee.