AMAPIANO sensation Duduzile Ngwenya, popularly known as Lady Du, has cursed the day she signed her contract with management. The award-winning musician has opened up about the abuse she had been getting from her manager. She revealed on social media that her manager, whom she did not name, was telling people that she was not taking bookings and also not paying her on time. “My manager is telling people that I’m unavailable for bookings; that he doesn’t work on weekends and he doesn’t pay me on time. Mind you, I don’t work for him; he gets paid off my bookings. He started taking cash from promoters. I am in hell and have been crying every day,” she wrote. Lady Du added that she had tried everything to reason with the manager, but he was not willing to listen. She also shared that she was not aware of what had been happening all along, and thanked all promoters who had messaged her directly. “I actually thought I was losing my fire when someone just decided to have a say in my life. To all the promoters who just woke up and decided to message me, thank you. I’m not one to fight and I’ve tried my best to not say anything. But I thought no, people go through so much in this industry. These new-age amapiano kids need a person who will actually be transparent so they can see that the industry is not as easy as it looks. ALSO READ | BLUE SHARES PREGNANCY JOURNEY “I have a catalogue that has so many hits. I’ve missed out on serious opportunities but that’s OK, that’s in the past now. I don’t ever cry for things I can’t control,” she said. She has now changed her booking details and asked people to send requests to the details on her Instagram account, and also apologised for not releasing her EP yet. “I’m sorry, I haven’t been myself. But after today, we move differently.” Daily Sun reached out to Lady Du for comment, but her phone rang unanswered. However, Gift Mdlalose, who was now handling her bookings, said she was in a better space. “She is a strong woman and back on the road,” he said. When asked how much the musician had lost so far, Gift told the Sun Team that they had not yet determined the exact amount. Daily Sun also reached out to Lady Du’s previous manager Thabiso Khathi, and his phone went unanswered.