WHEN two young women asked for feedback from Masoyi cops on a missing person’s case, Sergeant Joseph Mnisi was on duty. The 44-year-old cop from from KaBokweni in Mpumalanga overheard their conversation and became interested in their case. HE DIDN’T KNOW IT WOULD HELP HIM TRACK DOWN A SERIAL KILLER! And it was Mnisi’s hard work that led to the conviction of Julius “Masoyi Monster” Mndawe to five life terms and an additional 25 years for defeating the ends of justice. Mndawe was convicted for the murders of Tokkie Tlaka (24), Banele Khoza (15), Noxolo Mdluli (17), Nomthandazo Mdluli (17) and Felicia Mndlovu (19). The young women were reported missing in the Numbi area between 2018 and 2019 and were found buried in shallow graves. ALSO SEE: PICS: MADALA SKHOTHANE, THE SLAY KING! Mnisi told Daily Sun when Tokkie’s sister approached his colleagues about the progress of the missing person’s case, he asked to help them. “I overheard them tell my colleagues they managed to track Tokkie’s cellphone and it was active. I could feel that these complainants were not getting what they wanted,” he said. Mnisi said he immediately applied through the court to get the suspect’s cellphone records, including calls he made and received as well as text messages, which was approved and he was able to identify Mndawe a few days later. He said when they visited Mndawe’s house for questioning, he told them he bought the cellphone at a shopping complex in the area. But when they asked him to fetch it, he escaped through a back window. Mndawe was then brought to the police by his mother and the police spent about two hours interviewing him before he cracked and told them he buried Tokkie in his yard. “Julius is the type of person you shouldn’t be aggressive when talking to. He wants to feel like he owns you. If he said he was tired, you wouldn’t continue with the interview until he says he is fine. “I put myself in his position and realised he doesn’t like a lot of people around him. There were a lot of police officers when I started to interview him and he didn’t want to speak up until I took him to a private space where he confessed,” he said. Mnisi, who has been in the force for 14 years, said this was the first time he dealt with such a suspect. He said Mndawe didn’t want things to happen the way the police wanted, but the other way around. He started to build a relationship with him, which helped him in his investigation. “We built a relationship of trust. That is why he was able to tell me things. But when I asked him about Banele’s disappearance, he didn’t crack until I offered to buy him cigarettes. “I used to give him what he wanted to get more information from him,” he said. He said had he not come up with a strategy, he would not have discovered Mndawe’s deeds. Mnisi said he was happy with the sentence imposed on Mndawe. He said it gave the victims’ families closure and would discourage anyone who planned to commit such heinous crimes. “There is no greater sentence than life imprisonment. I know Julius will be away from our community for a long time and women and children will be safe. I am now putting more of my effort into these kinds of cases. I want to grow in the police service. When you grow, people who are interested in joining the police service will be encouraged by the job you do. I want to be a role model for the youth and my kids. I want a crime-free South Africa,” he said. He said he realised gender-based violence and femicide were major problems. “My experience is that most serious crimes are against women and children. Men should not see women as a tool to use for sex and vulnerable person to kill. My purpose is to fight crime against vulnerable people,” said Mnisi, who was awarded a special award by national police commissioner General Khehla Sithole for his contribution in uncovering the case. 