ORLANDO Pirates co-coach Mandla Ncikazi is convinced they have more than enough quality in their ensemble to push Mamelodi Sundowns hard in the DStv Premiership and challenge for Nedbank Cup and Caf Confederation Cup honours. The Soweto giants are one of the teams that did not strengthen in the recently concluded January transfer window, putting their faith firmly on the shoulders of players they started the season with to complete the job. Ncikazi has admitted that it would have been “nice” to see a few superstars walk through the door but since that wasn’t realistic in the past window, there was no reason to add any player that wasn’t going to improve the team. The procedure and protocol in different clubs aren’t the same,” said Ncikazi. “The fact that you have signed more players doesn’t guarantee success. I respect all protocols within our club, we trust our management and their judgement. They have been doing this for years. We will wait for them to do what they normally do in securing players. “Yes, like any other coach. I would love to have (Lionel) Messi in our team or Neymar but it depends whether this makes business sense. “We should not sign a player for the sake of signing a player, we must sign them because we need them, and we can afford to have them. “I don’t want to go deeper into why you sign, how you sign and at what time you sign. “At this current time, we have the players that are at our disposal and as coaches, we must use what we have until we are told or can afford to do otherwise.” Ncikazi’s Bucs will be desperate to close the massive 17 point-lead that defending champions Downs have opened in the league and clinch the Ke Yona Cup as well as the Confederation Cup. They are through to the last-16 of the Mzansi version of the FA Cup and will resume their Confederation Cup campaign with a clash against Algerian outfit JS Saoura in the group stages at Orlando Stadium on Sunday (6pm). Ncikazi wants players such as Thembinkosi Lorch and the rest of his trusted stars to show why they are top players in what is left of the current campaign for Pirates. “We are looking at players like Lorch to contribute a lot. We know a lot of things happen around him. He’s a top player and there’s a lot of expectation around him. “He’s one of those special players that any team would love to have. We are expecting a lot from him,”added Ncikazi.