SUPERSPORT United coach Kaitano Tembo has instructed his troops to leave it all on the battlefield as they go to war against Maritzburg United in the Nedbank Cup. Matsatsantsa a Pitori are expecting a hard-fought battle against the well drilled Team of Choice in their last-32 clash at the Harry Gwala Stadium today (6pm). The Ke Yona Cup represents the last chance of silverware for all but one of the top-flight teams remaining in the competition, with Mamelodi Sundowns the only team that has lifted a trophy. Downs already have the elusive MTN8 under their belt and are favourites to clinch a fifth straight league title having opened a massive 17-point lead at the top of the standings. This has inspired the rest of the top-flight teams, including Matsatsantsa, to do their best to ensure they deny Downs a domestic treble and finish their own campaigns with something to show in the form of silverware. Tembo, whose side last won a trophy in the 2019-20 season when they clinched the MTN 8, are desperate to finish the current campaign with the Ke Yona Cup in their cabinet. “The game against Maritzburg United is very key,” said Tembo. “This is a cup game and it gives us a realistic opportunity to finish with silverware this season. So, we are really looking forward to this game. I think we will really give it a go and ensure we get to the next round. That’s all we want. We are looking forward to this game.” This will be United’s first game since their 3-2 win over Cape Town City in a league match almost two months ago, and Tembo isn’t sure what to expect from his side. The Zimbabwean tactician, however, has done his best to get his team in the best physical shape in order for them to give Ernst Middendorp’s Maritzburg a hard time. It will also be the first of two back-to-back matches between the two teams in a space of two weeks, as they will also do battle on the league on Tuesday. “In terms of preparation, there’s been a lot of positives in the friendly games we played,” added Tembo. “The boys are looking fit and ready to resume the league. I think this game will give us a chance to check where we are in terms of our readiness to resume the league so it will be interesting.”