Mzansi is reeling in shock after the news of the sudden death of rapper and businessman, Riky Rick (34), broke this morning. According to sources close to the musician, born Rikhado Muziwendlovu Makhado, died in the early hours of the morning. A second source said the rapper committed suicide and he was found by close friends and was rushed to a nearby hospital. "Everyone is still at the hospital trying to sort out everything, it is painful, the wound is still fresh and they are still coming into terms with everything," they said. His last tweet read: “I will return a stronger man. This land is my home.’’  I’ll return a stronger man. This land is still my home.  Riky, who has publicly spoken out about his struggle with drugs and mental illness, revealed to Drum magazine back in 2020 that he had started going for therapy many years earlier. A post shared by Rikhado "Riky Rick" Makhado (@rikyrickworld)  He believed the stigma around men asking for help when they felt like they were failing needed to be changed.   Not Ricky Rick man ???? COTTON EATERS NEVER DIE. I'm really heartbroken. GOAT pic.twitter.com/BGfKESilOR  “My life turned around the day I realised that I needed help, and I went into a room with 50 strangers and shared my problems with them. That’s what I did for eight years and my life changed. It all starts on the inside,” he told Drum. Just recently, he spoke to Daily Sun about the announcement of his popular festival, Cotton Fest. “We are humbled to be back yet again to make an impact in the entertainment industry. With the huge support and backing from artists from around the country, we are ready to kick-start the road back to normality in a positive way, and get the economy going again,” he said at the time. Is it True that our Guy Ricky Rick has passed on or it's just a rumour??????‍?? pic.twitter.com/KCx30XYiZb  I'm actually in tears over the news about Ricky Rick. So many of us are fighting silent battles and you end up feeling like no one understands or wants to listen to you so you just decide to end your life. I pray for strength for all of those dealing with mental health issues ??  “With the industry currently flipped on its head, Cotton Fest, together with exciting partners, hope to bring together the industry and celebrate the graduation of the first class from the University of Cotton Fest 2022.” He was a father and husband, businessman, and visionary who cemented his place in the entertainment industry. The rapper’s family is yet to issue a formal statement.  Boss zonke ain't no way Ricky Rick is gone !! ???????? ?????????? pic.twitter.com/4jPfHV6HX5     