KATLEGO Maboe’s former partner Monique Muller has slammed the claims the court has ruled in favour of the former Expresso presenter. According to Monique, Katlego is trying to change the narrative and is spreading lies. All this comes after Katlego shared that he has come out victorious in his two-year-long battle against Monique. He shared in a lengthy statement that the court ruled there were no findings of the acts of domestic violence allegedly perpetrated against Monique and the matter has been dismissed. Speaking to Daily Sun, Monique said the matter has not been dismissed. “The judgment and the decision that was made was that since the application of the protection order, there hasn’t been any new act of domestic violence. And based on that, there will be no judgment. That doesn’t mean that the matter has been dismissed,” she said. Monique said Katlego is opening old wounds by lying as she had already moved on from all of this because it has affected her emotionally and psychologically. Ever since speaking up that Katlego is lying, Monique has been getting messages on her social media accounts that she is bitter, but she said she is unfazed. “I have been attacked and bullied ever since this came to light, so the messages that I have been getting won’t deter me. I shall continue until the injustice that was done against me is corrected. The mother of one also revealed that she has not healed from the domestic abuse that she allegedly suffered at the hands of the talented presenter. ALSO READ | KATLEGO CELEBRATES LEGAL WIN “A few months ago, I would have said yes, I have healed, but I recently had an extremely triggering experience where I had to share and relive my story and then I realised it will take time for me to completely heal, but I am taking the necessary steps to do so,” she said. Following Monique’s claims, Daily Sun also reached out to Katlego’s publicist Lerato Maleswena who then directed us to his lawyer Andre Johnston, who dismissed Monique’s claims. “The allegation that Monique alleged in her protection order was not proven in court therefore it was dismissed. But that is not the end of the proceedings for me, as there were serval cost orders that were granted against Monique and I am going to ensure that they are enforced against her, and vindicate Katlego of all these vile allegations and claims made against him,” he said.