The life of slain music producer and DJ Sandile Mkhize was celebrated in an intimate memorial service. The talented musician was described as kind, loving and down to earth by his family, friends and the whole music fraternity. Speaking at the memorial service that was held at Pace Community College in Soweto, Citi Lyts' aunt Zandile Vilakazi said they are devastated. "Our hearts are bleeding, this is a huge injustice to our family, but all we can do now is to celebrate him as he has run his race and he'd want us to do so," she said. While his other aunt Thoko Zondo said he will pray for the family to find healing and peace. Family friend Kefilwe said they won't stop until justice has prevailed. "The family has been hit hard and we don't understand how someone would do such a thing to such a kind and loving person and we as people who were close to him, we mustn't stand down, we need to help the police catch the culprits," she said. Kefilwe also shared that Citi Lyts dad couldn't attend the memorial service because he's devasted. "He is not in a good space, in 2018 he lost his son Linda, last year he buried his wife, and now Sandile, the family has hadn't time to heal from all these incidents, they've been hit hard." During the service, there were performances by Deep Soweto, Flipside, Emtee, Sjava, and Saudi. Other speakers included DJ Big Sky and controversial music boss Nota Baloyi who hijacked the programme. His industry peer Robort Boii who was the MC said Citi Lyts was humbled, chilled and he's going to miss him for his heart.  Best friend, Sthembiso Mkhabela said he's broken. "We used to do things together, loved music and a good time, but above it, all community builder and they've taken that away from us," he said. His son Owethu Mkhize also paid tribute to him in a later and said that he's heartbroken that his dad is no more. "Dear Dad, I know you didn't want me to leave me this soon, my birthday is next month, and I am sad that you won't be there. Thank you for being the best, so please walk the path with me from here on and be there for me, I will always love you." Citi Lyts passed on Monday, 14 February after an attempted hijacking. According to reports, he was ambushed by a group of guys, and he was shot eight times and died on the scene. The DJ became popular in 2015 with his single Washa, when he joined record label Ambitiouz Entertainment. 