SOUTH African 100m record holder, Akani Simbine, celebrates 12 years working with renowned athletics coach Warner Prinsloo. However, the pair failed to deliver a World Championship podium finish, and this year they are prioritising a medal performance on the world stage. It is a jam-packed athletics calendar, and Simbine must sacrifice most of the meetings to focus on his goal of conquering the world. Simbine (28) and his coach decided to sacrifice the Diamond League series to focus on the African Championships in June, the World Championships in the United States in July, and the Commonwealth Games in England in August. The winners of the Diamond League at each final get a trophy and 30 000 US dollars (about R612 000). Simbine will take part in compulsory SA Track and Field Championships at the Green Point stadium in Cape Town in April. He will open his season in one of the local Grand Prix races next month, but Prinsloo warned he would not race a lot to avoid fatigue. Simbine failed to make the podium finish at the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, clocking 9.93 seconds to secure a fourth-place finish. At the 2019 World Championships in Doha, Qatar, Simbine secured a fourth-place finish in 9.93 seconds to record a personal best at the time. He won numerous African 100m titles, and he is the reigning 100m Commonwealth Games champion, but he has delivered little on the world stage. Prinsloo still sees the Commonwealth Games as a big stage without the United States of America, Brazil, and other European countries. “It is not about the money, but about chasing the dream of making the podium in America. The Americans will come out to prove a point in their home country,” Prinsloo told SunSport through virtual platform discussions.. “We have to bring our A-game and be ready for the challenge. We must be strategic in terms of where he runs. “After the setback in Tokyo, we are focusing on the year ahead. He set out to defend his title at the Commonwealth Games. In America, it is a matter of execution, and he knows what he needs, and he has learned from his past failures. There are too many expectations weighing heavily on his shoulders,” However, Prinsloo insists that he won’t crumble under pressure this year. “He can run a fast time and make the podium in America, but we have to focus on what he has to do and shouldn’t do,” added Prinsloo. “Akani is dealing with what happened in Tokyo, and he can be a better athlete.” The nature of their hectic schedule means they will travel for two weeks to Mauritius, England, and the USA between June and August for the three main championships.