 While regulations pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic keep
being relaxed in South Africa, mask mandates are still here, for now. During a Friday media briefing on government efforts in the
fight against Covid-19 and the national vaccination rollout programme, Health
Minister Joe Phaahla answered questions on mandatory mask wearing. Under the Level 1 lockdown regulations, wearing a mask in
public is still mandatory, and any person who fails to comply with a verbal
instruction from a law enforcement officer to wear a mask commits an offence. An offender is liable to a fine or imprisonment not
exceeding six months. The regulations further state that no person will be allowed
to operate or use public transport, or be in a public open space or building
used by the public to obtain goods and services, without wearing a mask. Responding to a question, Phaahla said the government had
not yet been advised on getting rid of mask mandates. He added that different countries had taken different
approaches to the mask mandates, but that several still viewed the wearing of
masks as essential in the fight against Covid-19. The minister said mask mandates would be discussed when
answering a follow-up question, but did not give a timeframe. "It will be discussed as other countries do effect
changes on masks," Phaahla said. "Our Ministerial Advisory Committee
will discuss the matter and give us advice, but we will also consider, based on
the advice, look[ing] at the experiences elsewhere." He added that getting rid of mask mandates had not been a
general approach, and that they were still in place in the majority of
countries. However, the minister urged South Africans not to be in a
hurry to get rid of their masks. "I know it’s an irritant to wear a mask, but we need to
be patient, as this pandemic is still in our midst. We shouldn’t drop our
guard. "There is ample evidence that masks do reduce the
spread," Phaahla said. The minister concluded by saying that mask mandates would be
scrutinised. Earlier, Phaahla indicated that the decline in new
infections had slowed down as the country reached the end of the fourth wave
threshold. "We have seen a less resilient decline in infections.
The picture has been that of a stalemate, where there’s no serious decline and
yet no worrying rise in infections. Instead of the curve flattening, it has
taken the shape of a plateau." The stagnation was attributed to the opening of schools. "In support of this is also an observation that over
the last 14 days, we have witnessed more infections amongst the young people
below 20 years of age." SOURCE: NEWS24