A 16-YEAR-OLD who was picking blueberries was left traumatised after he saw his dog eating a child’s headless corpse. He captured the ordeal on his cellphone, before rushing home to tell his neighbour. His neighbour then alerted the boy’s mum, who then called the police. The body was found near Mutlumuvi River which cuts through Kumani and Thulamahashe kasi near Bushbuckridge on Saturday, 5 February. The boy’s mum said: “I couldn’t believe my eyes when my boy showed me the video of a child’s headless and legless corpse on his phone. When we returned with the Mhala police, it started raining heavily and the spot quickly filled with water, and the search was then put off. Police came again on Saturday, the search was put off, as it raining heavily.” The traumatised grade 10 pupil who made the gruesome discovery said: “I can’t even sleep. I’m thinking of killing my dog as it has eaten part of it. I couldn’t believe my eyes seeing the dog eating a headless and legless child’s body half buried body in the sand. The body had one arm missing.” When the news started making the round on Saturday, Sam Masilane (52) whose two-year-old son, Ashley Kurhandza Masilane, was kidnapped from his bed in Kumani, Mpumalanga in December, said his heart sank. He thought the body might belong to his son. He, along with other villagers, rushed to the river. “I was relieved when police arrived and we started searching. I received the message from villagers on Saturday that there was a child’s corpse found in the river, and police were flooding the scene. But I only found many people on the bridge, and the police had gone as it was raining heavily, and water covered the whole spot.” Sam when cops went back to the scene on Sunday, 6 February, he had hoped he’d find closure. “Unfortunately, police found nothing, he said. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala confirmed the 16-year-old saw his dog digging up and eating something down Mutlumuvi River. “They filmed the whole thing. They reported the matter to their neighbour who advised them to go and report to their mother. She took them to the police at 4.30pm. The police rushed to the scene, but the rain started. On Thursday morning, the dog unit was summoned but could not work because of the rain. On Monday, 31 January morning, police together with the dog unit continued with their search and the water was drained but they couldn’t find anything,” he said. An inquiry has been opened.