MARUMO Gallants have not played an official league game this year, and it could work for or against them, according to head coach Dan “Dance” Malesela. Malesela warned his players about the danger of the long break, and hopes they will hit the ground running when they visit Chippa United in a DStv Premiership clash at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium on Saturday (3.30pm). The Limpopo-based outfit defeated third-tier side Santos 2-0 in the Nedbank Cup first round, but Malesela described the league game against his former team as a real test. Malesela gave his boys a day off yesterday to reflect on their league game against the Chilli Boys in the Eastern Cape. He told SunSport he is desperate to collect the three points. Malesela vowed to make life difficult for his former employers. “The break could be a curse or a blessing. I hope my players have matured and will not behave like in pre-season. I did not want to give them a break close to the match and wanted them to reflect and think about Chippa.We have been pushing hard in training, and also want to avoid fatigue,” said Malesela. The former Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates defender described their remaining 12 games in the league as cup finals. Marumo are 11th on the table with 19 points from 18 matches, and Malesela is eager to open the gap between them and the teams below. “I am going to Chippa to take care of business and am focused on the match. I love the pitch we will play an exciting brand of football it is big.We are in a tight situation and need to collect as many points as we can to open a reasonable gap,” he said. Chippa blew a 2-0 lead to draw 2-2 against Royal AM last week, and Malesela watched that game with keen interest. “I paid attention to every small detail of that match. We studied weaknesses and came up with a plan to get the three points. It is our first match this year, and we hope things will go according to plan. We built a team that can bring us desired results,” added Malesela. Midfielder Mahlatse Makhudubela is doubtful of the away trip with a quad muscle.