THE Zondo Commission wants an extension to hand over the final part of the state capture report to President Cyril Ramaphosa. Secretary of the commission, Itumeleng Mosala, issued a statement on Friday, 18 February that the commission will no longer be able to keep its promise to release the last part of the three-part report at the of this month. "Although the chairperson had previously indicated that the volumes of the report that would be delivered to the President at the end of February would be the last part of the report, unfortunately, this will no longer be the case," he said. Mosala said the failure was regrettable, but it was due to a number of factors including the fact that acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo had to take some time off to prepare for his Judicial Service Commission interview for the Chief Justice position and to rest after the interview. He said Zondo needs more time to go through further documents on certain topics submitted to him and that some of those who are assisting him with documents relating to the report have needed more time to complete them or will submit them too close to the deadline or will need beyond the end of February to submit them. "The Chairperson wishes to make it clear that no delay in the submission of any document is due to any neglect of duty but it is due to various challenges and the commitment by all concerned to ensure that a proper job is done. As a result of the fact that the 1 volume of the Report that the Commission will deliver to the President at the end of February will not be the last part of the Report, it became necessary for the Commission to apply to the High Court, Pretoria for a further extension of its term by a period of two months," he said. If the extension is granted, the Commission will submit the balance of its report either at the end of April or part of it at the end of March and the last part at the end of April 2022. This will mean that by the end of February the Report that the Commission will have delivered to the President will run into about 3000 pages of detailed analysis of evidence, findings and recommendations. "In conclusion, it is hoped that all concerned will appreciate that the Report that the commission will have delivered to the President by the end of February will, by any standards, be a substantial report," said Mosala.