AFTER a year and three months training, it wasn’t what she expected, so the gatvol 17-year-old thwasa from Rosettenville, Jozi wanted to go home. Another thwasa had also left. Her mum said her daughter always dreamt of sangoma-related things. She said her interest in ubungoma grew when her friend started to train as a sangoma. “She’d always attend imigidi. I didn’t think I was driving her to initiation.” When she refused her child to initiate, she packed her bags and moved to her gogo’s house. “She told me she dreamt of a snake that represents a gobela. She said it wanted her to initiate. I said I’m not buying it because I knew that’s where her friend was being initiated. I told her to wait for her ancestors to show her the right place, but she moved out,” she said. The thwasa’s gogo said she accompanied her to start initiating. “I thought I was doing the right thing.” She thought she was doing okay till she got a call from school.“They complained she wore a hat and often screamed.” The thwasa said she was treated unfairly. “Our families have different statuses and we could see the difference in treatment when well-off families came. I was also accused of dating four people. We are often overworked doing dlozi things and I’m tired by the time I do my schoolwork.” She didn’t trust some rituals as she found dodgy things in muthi. “At one point there was oil and next there were beads in different colours. This put me off because my gobela told us she’d use muthi on us that will make us follow her for the rest of our lives,” she said. She planned her escape, but Gogo Maliyavuza from the CRL Community Council advised her not to. Maliyavuza said from the onset, the thwasa was fascinated by what her friend was doing. “She did this without guidance from her ancestors. We are taking this child back home, she needs to forget about training. “I assure you she’s not going to any other gobela after this.” The thwasa’s parents filed a complaint with their office. Her gobela wasn’t aware of the allegations and was heartbroken. “She is free to go back home,” he said. But the other gobela running the school labelled the thwasa a liar. “I tried to accommodate all of them and gave them time to study. Let her go back home, it’s fine,” she said. The CRL Community Council will return to the ndumba as a many issues have unfolded from other initiates.