ALCOHOL consumption should always be done responsibly, but sadly that’s often not the case. Drunkenness continues to become a great social challenge globally. ALSO READ: JUNIOR KHANYE'S 15 DRUNK CRASHES! According to the latest global statistics, 25,8% of people aged 18 and older reported they engaged in binge drinking in the past month. In the United States of America alone, 14,5 million people suffer from alcohol use disorder. Simply put, the world has a serious drinking problem. So, while many may get drunk after having one too many, there are different types of drunkenness. According to Alcohol-Rehab-Help, here are some types of drunkenness we need to be aware of: 1. Angry Drunks A common side effect of alcohol consumption is becoming easily upset and extremely reactive by imagined threats or small inconveniences. Alcohol can affect your ability to assess an emotional or physical threat accurately. This means you may become overly upset at something someone says or does or feel like you are being attacked when it is not the case. 2. Happy Drunks During the early stages of drinking, many of us experience a feeling of euphoria. This is called being tipsy. For some individuals, this state of happiness remains no matter how much they drink. 3. Blackout Drunks People who drink a lot of alcohol in a short period can sometimes experience memory loss, known as a blackout. This type of alcohol consumption is called binge drinking. When people cannot stop or control their drinking, they may black out more often than others. Intoxication can result in riskier behaviour, so blackouts can be dangerous. 4. Affectionate Drunks Some people may shift from quiet and reserved to more open, touchy-feely, and expressive when they are drunk. Alcohol lessens our inhibitions and can make us more sensitive and emotional. Affectionate drunks become more loving than usual when they’ve had too much to drink. 5. Secret Drunks Some people seem to hold their alcohol better than others. Some individuals never seem to act drunk, no matter how much they drink. Some will say that secret drunks have a high tolerance for alcohol. Secret drunk personalities may also be down to genetics. Some genes make us more sensitive to alcohol, while others may make us less vulnerable to its effects.