IT must feel like deja vu for relegation-threatened Chippa United. The Chilli Boys survived the dreaded drop to the GladAfrica Championship by the skin of their teeth in the relegation play-offs last season. Unfortunately, they do not appear to have learnt their lesson, as they find themselves in the same predicament again this season. Chippa are among favourites to be relegated this season or participate in the relegation play-offs as they are yet to get even 20 points in as many as 19 league matches. They are occupying the 14th spot, three points ahead of Baroka FC, who are rock bottom and two ahead of Swallows, who are struggling to get back their groove this season as they are in the mix, sitting in 15th spot. With 11 games remaining, it will be the survival of the fittest as all the teams are looking at giving their best last shot to achieve their different goals. Some are chasing a top-eight spot; others top three to qualify for the continental competitions. Chippa midfielder Sizwe Mdlinzo says their main objective at this stage is to get out of the danger zone. On Saturday, Chippa will host Marumo Gallants at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium at 3.30pm. “We are not happy with our last game, but we have managed to regroup in camp and we are focused on our next game,” Mdlinzo said ahead of their match against Gallants. Last weekend Chippa dropped points when they allowed Royal AM to come from behind and held them to a 2-2 draw. “It is a fight for a relegation battle. They want to move out of their current log position and we also want to go into a better position on the log, but we are home and we come out from a game whereby we lost out 2-0 lead (and ended up playing to a 2-2 draw),” Mdlinzo added. “We are focussed on the Galaxy game, we are going to go all out regardless of how they are playing, Chippa United are going for three points, that is all I can say.” In the remaining fixtures, the Chilli Boys still have to face formidable opponents such as Orlando Pirates, Stellenbosch FC, SuperSport United, Kaizer and Cape Town City FC, who might compound their woes. 