Takana Chigoyi was overwhelmed with emotion as he prepared to transport his sister's remains to Zimbabwe. Chigoyi's sister Chisimango Gumbo, 48, is one of the five victims whose remains were finally handed over to families after an almost three-month wait for DNA test results. The women were allegedly killed by a serial killer operating in Limpopo. Chigoyi's remains were released along with those of Sarah Mothiba, 42, Lesotho national Moleboheng Mothibeli, 34, Khomotso Makhura, 41, and Sanah Senyatsi, 34. Two other victims,  Andrea Cholo, 25, and Jane Letswalo, 42, were identified earlier. The women were allegedly killed by Themba Prince Willard Dube, 36. Dube faces seven counts of kidnapping and murder, rape, defeating the ends of justice and contravention of immigration law. The Zimbabwean national was in the country illegally. His modus operandi was to lure women with a promise of employment. Dube was initially arrested for possession of a suspected stolen cellphone which was later linked by police to a woman who was kidnapped in Lebowakgomo. Though Chigoyi was emotional that the DNA confirmed his sister had died, he was also relieved the family would have closure when they buried her in their home village in Zimbabwe. He said: It was an agonising wait for the release of the body. There was a long delay for the DNA tests, but finally, we would lay her to rest. I hope her soul will find peace at home."I came to South Africa immediately after we were informed about the discovery of her body. It was a long wait especially given that I didn't come to South Africa for work. So, the stay here was both emotionally and financially draining," Chigoyi said. He said final burial plans would be made when he was reunited with his family. Gumbo disappeared from her rented room in Seshego, outside Polokwane, on August 2021. He said he hoped Dube would rot in jail. "This was a heinous crime he committed. "This guy caused a lot of pain to families. It's going to take a long time for us to heal. Maybe the heavy sentence will make us heal faster," Chigoyi said. Dube is expected to appear again in the Seshego Magistrate's Court on 28 February.