SOMIZI MHLONGO will soon be back in the Idols SA spotlight And for now he is not ready to talk about his months in the entertainment wilderness as he is looking towards the future. “IT WAS ONE OF THE TOUGHEST TIMES IN MY LIFE BUT WE ARE MOVING FORWARD,” HE SAID. “I am innocent until proven guilty.” The biggest reality music competition in the country has decided to bring him back alongside two brand new judges, musicians Thembi Seete and Thabo “JR” Bogopa. “I missed being on the show and returning to the show was a mutual decision between the producers of the show and myself,” he told Daily Sun. “They were very compassionate and understanding and asked if I was ready to come back.” Somizi, who was put on ice by Idols SA following the abuse allegations that were levelled at him by his estranged husband, has barely touched on that subject. Following the incident that cost him almost all of his jobs as people called for him to be cancelled Somizi, whose life is always under the microscope, said he will try to manage his life better. “But doing better doesn’t mean that I have to lose myself. I have always been happy about how I live my life and I’m not going to sit and play the victim,” he said. Somizi told the People’s Paper they should expect the unexpected. “I am looking for authenticity above everything else,” he said. Legendary singer and actress Thembi said she was over the moon when she was approached to be a permanent judge on the show. “I didn’t take any time to decide about taking the gig. I accepted right away. The last time I was here I came to have a good time. I didn’t think that small stint was going to be significant,” she said. Thembi also said in a contestant she was looking for someone who was authentic and would bring originality. “The only place where I feel I am myself is on the stage. I want someone who will show us that they deserve and want to be on the show,” she said. Newbie JR said he was not going to try to fill anyone else’s shoes as he would be himself. He said he may be harsh at times but he’d only be trying to bring out the best in the contestants. “I have held many positions in my career and I bring a lot of expertise into the panel. I will bring an overall perspective of the music industry,” he said. Yolisa Phahle, CEO of General Entertainment for MultiChoice, said they were excited to have the show back this year. She said they were introducing in new faces to bring in a fresh approach and to increase the ratings that had dropped slightly in the past years. “One of the key components in having staying power is evolution, and our new-look panel is part of that,” she said. “Idols SA is an important part of our creative industry. We unearth hidden talent, but we also nurture our contestants and equip them with the necessary tools to start or grow their careers.” 