HIS family held a vigil next at the site where his car was
swept away. At midday, they came together to pray so he could be found. Frans Mokhonwana (49), a Vodacom employee and a part-time
Uber driver was swept away together with two female passengers by strong
current along the M18 road in Olifantsfontein on Saturday night. The Olifantsfonteinspruit river bursts it’s banks and they couldn’t
see the water as the road is too dark at night. Relative Tshegofatso Mokhonwana (36) said they contacted
them to get emergency services for them but they delayed. “At the time they were standing on the roof of the car but
unfortunately they were swept away.” By yesterday his body and that of one woman had not been
found. Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said one female body has
been found and the search was continuing for two other bodies. One of the woman is said to be a Botswana national. “We understand that a second lady is from Kagiso but little
is known at this stage,” said Tshegofatso. The families of the victims have been gathering near the
river since Sunday morning. “We are not happy at how the rescue team has been handling
this matter. On Sunday, they didn’t want to conduct the operation and we had to
beg them. The family say it was just a diver and the dog. Tshegofatso said as they put pressure, divers were
increased. “Today we are told it is a squad and we hoping something
comes out of this.” Frans’ wife Mpho Mnisi, in her 30s, was just quiet with
sadness was etched on her face. “We wish motorists could be made aware of how dangerous and
dark this road at night. If they put up some signs,” said a relative. Tshegofatso said her uncle who stays in Midrand took his
wife to a family gathering on Saturday near Hammanskraal and when he came he
decided to do some Uber rounds. “He has been working for Vodacom for years and Uber was just
an extra income. “I have been against the idea of him doing Uber but little
did I know that one day I could be standing waiting for him to be found.”