TO say that Sekhukhune United coach MacDonald Makhubedu was upset with his charges after their shock exit from the Nedbank Cup is an understatement. Makhubedu was spitting fire and did not hold back in his criticism of his players after they bowed out of the cup of dreams on penalties to a lower league opponent. GladAfrica Championship outfit Platinum City Rovers registered a 3-2 victory on penalties after their last-23 clash ended 1-1 after extra time at Profert Olen Park Stadium in Potchefstroom at the weekend. Yusuf Maart put Dinoko in the lead in the third minute, but they failed to build on to their dream start and allowed the home side a way back into the game. Lehlohonolo Mojela scored in stoppage time to force the game into penalties, leaving Makhubedu fuming. He tore into his players and questioned their commitment as he blasted them for undermining the Championship side. “We had a bad game, and we undermined our opposition,” said an angry Makhubedu after the game. “Rovers took their chance at the death and levelled matters to force the game into extra time. I thought our penalty takers were too casual. “To make matters worse is that our strikers did not take penalties, and we had defenders taking penalties, and the goal scorers refused to take penalties, and it shows that something is wrong,” he added. Makhubedu could give them another tongue lashing when they report for training as he believes that some of his senior players did not take responsibility in the penalty shoot-out and let the club down. He could not hide his disappointment and felt betrayed by how they did not step up to take the penalties. “I am disappointed with the results. We will go back to the drawing board and plan for the next game. We have to work harder,” Makhubedu added. There is barely time to reflect on the shock defeat as they visit Royal AM in the DStv Premiership at the Chatsworth Stadium in Durban tomorrow (5.30pm). Rovers’ assistant coach Tesco Macheke praised his side for their never-say-die attitude. “We started badly and conceded an early goal, but the boys showed character and came back into the game. We made a few changes and started playing, and we scored at the last minute. “We dominated during extra time, but failed to score a second goal. We dedicate the win to the chairman and thank him for giving us the opportunity. Well done to the players and supporting staff,” said a jubilant Macheke.