FAILING to win the Caf Champions League title this season will not be regarded as a failure at Mamelodi Sundowns, coach Manqoba Mngqithi has said. On Friday, Sundowns will play their first group match of the tournament against Al Hilal of Sudan at Royal Bafokeng Stadium (6pm). With the team having gone all out to reinforce the squad with the big names such as Teboho Mokoena, Bradley Ralani and Edwin Saavedra for the tournament, there is a lot expected from Downs. Mngqithi had revealed a few weeks ago that the motive behind their signings was to make sure they have enough quality to challenge for the African title. However, Mngqithi made it clear that he would not regard not winning the title as a failure. “We are looking at our competitors in the Champions League, and we tried our best to get the team to that level and make sure that we are at that stage where we compete at almost the same level with them,” Mngqithi told the media yesterday. “Our plan has always been to fight and win the title. That is why we are fighting to be in the Champions League every year. Our signings are always influenced by us trying to ensure that we are better than the previous year, and we hope we will get there. However, I will not regard not winning the Champions League as a failure, but I would not want to experience it. “I would love to see Sundowns winning the Champions League. We understand what is at stake, but we also know it is a very long road, and we have to try.” Sundowns and the Sudanese team will not be facing each other for the first time. The sides met at the same stage of the tournament last season. They drew 0-0 in the first leg, with Downs winning the return leg 2-0. Mngqithi knows what they will be up against tomorrow, and they have done their homework. He stated: “We have done a very intensive study on Al Hilal. “We have watched a lot of their matches, even going back to the match that we played against them in Sudan and here in South Africa (in February and April 2021). Their team has not changed that much, we know they are robust and strong in the air.” He singled out Mohamed Abdelrahman as one of Al Hilal main threats. “The game is most likely to be on two fronts, either on set pieces or their counter-attacking game with Rahman (Abdelrahman) being the most important player for them. He is a player that troubled us last year,” Mngqithi added.