DR Nomdakazana Dlamini can’t wait to host the second Mzansi Traditional and Cultural Music Awards. She said she formed the awards because she saw a gap in the industry. The first annual awards were launched and held in 2020, but Covid-19 put them on hold. “Artists think awards are for famous people whose music is celebrated nationally and abroad, and that is not so. “The response from the last awards was so impressive, starting from the launch to the nominee announcement and main event. We started with 15 categories and 10 honorary categories, with artists from all over the country,” she said. She said she was an international Afro traditional music artist with four awards to her name. Dlamini, an ambassador for SA Traditional and Cultural Music Exchange in West Africa, said she was goal-driven and hardworking and believed in transparency in everything she did. ALSO READ | FANS SHOW DJ CLEO LOVE “Knowing how abused artists are, from studio and managers to promoters, I hate how they have been indoctrinated to think. “This is why I have partnered with Sheer Publishing Africa to run workshops for all participants.” Dlamini said the awards had 39 categories, and so far 36 had been filled to give an opportunity to traditional music producers, TV presenters and all tribes. “We have 20 honorary categories and the awards are accompanied by money, funeral policies, medals, certificates and accommodation. We had a lot of challenges as the first annual event was self-funded. “What’s good about this event is that it has no class. It uplifts musicians from grassroot level and honours those at skyscrapers level.” She said her awards aimed to remind artists of who they were as well as unite and make them learn cultural exchange. “We shall strive to showcase, empower and mentor musicians in finding their true worth in the industry. We shall keep embracing our tradition and culture through music,” Dlamini said. She said the nominee announcement would be on 26 February and the main event on 27 August, both to be held at Germiston Theatre.