Despite it being part among the best podcasts in the world, Podcast and Chill with MacG has ruffled a few feathers since it was launched in 2018. This comes after a few of our local celebrities found themselves under fire following their interviews on the popular podcast owned by media personality, Macgyver Mukwevho. This was also noted by award-winning producer Maphorisa who shared that going to the podcast can be a career suicide. “When you go to that podcast you need to be prepared otherwise your career is ruined,” he said. Daily Sun has complied a list of celebrities who found themselves under fire after appearing on the popular podcast that has been recently surrounded by controversy and claims that there is a smear campaign against it. 1. Natasha Thahane The granddaughter of the late icon Archbishop Desmond Tutu had a sit down with the talented presenter and shared how she got the opportunity to study overseas. She revealed she had received R1 million in funds from the government after reaching out to politician Baleka Mbete, who then allegedly reached out to the Department Sport, Arts and Culture to arrange the funds. “I asked Baleka if I can please have funds because I had been accepted. I said: ‘Please arrange something for me’. She managed to speak to the arts department, that was able to help me,” she revealed. ALSO READ | DJ SBU UVUSA ABALELE The interview went straight to the trendsmap on Twitter, leaving social media users fuming. But she has since denied the claims and said that everything she said during her interview with the controversial MacG was taken out of context. 2. Jub Jub The award-winning musician and TV presenter following his interview with the controversial podcaster was given an ultimatum by his employers to apologise to the mother of his child, Kelly Khumalo. This was after he went on record on the show and claimed that the songstress used muthi on him to keep him in a relationship with her. 3. Teko Modise Teko Modise’s former lover Lizelle Tabane served the popular footballer with a letter of demand after he appeared on the popular podcast stating that the claims of assault that he made on the show were irresponsible and insensitive, especially during a time that the country was supposed to be observing a period of 16 Days of Activism against Abuse.