CHIPPA United coach, Kurt Leintjies, says he is not scared to lose his job or feeling any pressure as his side are not safe from relegation following a 2-0 defeat to Mamelodi Sundowns in a DStv Premiership match at Loftus Stadium on Monday. Lentjies said he has worked under pressure his whole life and will take the defeat with a smile instead of worrying about getting fired. The soft-spoken coach is aware that he could join Gavin Hunt, who is currently unemployed if the Chilli Boys don’t win games. The Gqeberha-based side are 12th on the league table on 16 points from 18 matches, they are three points ahead of bottom club TS Galaxy. “I’ve been working under pressure my whole life, so pressure not (feeling it) at all, like I said I take this loss with a smile. “We have put everything is in God’s hands, whether I stay here for the next day or the next two years, let it be. I have been through the fire with football already, so nothing can ever get worse for me. “I am accepting where I am. I wouldn’t have said yes to taking this job If I didn’t believe I could motivate this players and work towards what we want to achieve this season.” The 36-year-old believes the Chilli Boys will soon turn the corner since they are now playing good football compared to at the start of the season. Chippa will face Royal AM in their next league game on 19 February. “The change has already happened. What we have installed on players is not to look what’s happening behind us, we want to target the next team that’s above us (Marumo Gallants who have 19 points). There is something that’s cooking since I have arrived, it’s more about education football and lifestyle. I told the guys if we put God first in everything we do, he will bind us together, that’s why you saw them dying on the field for each other there, it’s really a brotherhood. Lentjies praised his new recruits Siphelele Luthuli and Ronald Pfumbidzai for showing commitment despite last kicking a ball seven months ago while playing for Royal Am. “It’s a big change for Chippa because our approach has changed, like I said I am proud of the boys, it’s a step in the right direction,” he added.