Tshegofatso Pule's uncle Tumisang Katake has expressed that
the murder accused Ntuthuko Shoba has shown no remorse. Before court proceedings, Katake told Daily Sun that ever
since the murder trial started, Shoba has shown no emotion towards Pule and the
unborn child's death. He said it was odd that Shoba would allow Pule to leave with
the jeep driver who was allegedly drunk according to his testimony. "She seemed to have known the driver because she asked
him if he would drive her in that drunk state, then the driver responded
telling Pule to get into the car," said Shoba. Kateke said it was careless of Shoba to even let the mother
of his unborn child be driven by a drunk man. "He painted a picture of a caring and involved partner
but as a family, we don't buy it. To a point that when Tshego was missing he
had been to Meadowlands twice failing to come to check up on her, despite not
being able to reach her on the phone," said Katake. He said:" to be honest I don't see anything less than a
conviction in this case. " Shoba's defense Norman Makhubela had requested to interview
two witnesses that the state didn't use for their evidence. On Wednesday the court heard testimony from Shoba's close
friend Zakhele Sithole about the day they bumped into Muzikayise Malephane at
cash build. On Thursday the second witness took the Stand. For their
safety, acting judge Wilson made a ruling that they may not be identified or
named fearing victimisation. The witness confirmed that their car was the one used by
Malephane to pick up Pule. "On the 4th of June Malephane was at home with his
friends when I came back from work. He then left with my car the silver Jeep
and never came back that night." "There was never a time where I saw cigarettes or
alcohol at my house during the lockdown period, if he had been selling them
illegally I would have known. " As the witness completed their testimony they broke down and
wept before being escorted out. Court has adjourned for closing arguments next week Tuesday.
Judge Wilson has lifted the ban and the media can live stream from then.