PARENTS and pupils couldn’t believe what they saw during the pastor’s prayer session. Their school, Glenvista High in the south of Joburg, has been in the news before for problems like bullying, but last Thursday, 3 February, there were reports of demonic possession. Six pupils started screaming and rolling on the floor. Some even fainted. On Monday, 7 February, a pastor was called in to conduct a prayer session that erupted into chaos when dozens of pupils were screaming, running around and rolling on the floor. The mother of a grade 8 pupil told Daily Sun she had never seen anything like it. She said her daughter was new to the school. “I was trembling in my pants when the pupils started acting up. When the pastor started praying, several kids including those who were acting strange last week started screaming, kicking and crying. Many fainted and some rolled on the floor. “Our children had to run out of the hall fearing for their lives,” she said. Another parent said it was chaotic. ALSO READ | NURSE LEBO LOVED PEOPLE - SISTER! “Our children feared for their lives and stormed out. Some kids bumped into walls. It was easy for them to cause a stampede. We would be mourning lost lives if this incident got out of hand.” Democratic Alliance members in the provincial legislature Khume Ramulifho and Sergio Dos Santos called on Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi to resolve the issue after his oversight visit to the school on Monday. “We were shocked to witness several pupils kicking, screaming hysterically and crying during a prayer session at the school following allegations of demonic possession,” he said. “We call on the MEC to ensure all these issues are addressed without delay to allow pupils to get the best possible education. We will continue to monitor the MEC’s intervention to ensure schooling continues at Glenvista High School without any further disruptions,” he said. Acting departmental spokesman Oupa Bodibe said: “Allegations of demonic problems are dismissed as without basis. We confirm that on 3 February, a pupil fell to ground in the girls’ toilets and was immediately assisted by the teachers. ALSO READ | GOGO
FOUND DEAD AT HOME! “The cause of the pupil’s collapse is still to be determined. Her parents were informed and she was taken home.”