TV presenter and musician Jub Jub has apologised to the mother of his child, Kelly Khumalo. The media personality, who is best known for presenting Moja Love’s TV show Uyajola 99, said he would like to own up to his mistake and apologise for the hurt and distress he might have caused following the aftermath of his interview with controversial podcaster MacG. “Kelly I am sorry, I didn’t mean for things to get here between you and I. My comments were taken out of context, however, it still doesn’t make it right,” he said. His apology comes after reports that he was ordered to apologise and if not he can kiss his job at Moja Love goodbye. But Jub Jub, whose real name is Molemo Maarohanye, said he wasn’t apologising because of that. “I had plans to make things right with you and I will still do outside of the public domain. I am hoping and most importantly praying that you and I will one day reach an amicable solution to co-parent our champ, as all I beg for is an opportunity to be part of his life,” he said. Jub Jub, who has missed many years of his son’s life including the years he spent behind bars, said there was no way he could take back the years he missed of his son’s life, but given an opportunity he could be a good father to him. ALSO READ | KULI ROBERTS HAS PASSED ON Jub Jub said this was not the way he intended to apologise to the Jehova hitmaker, but because the defamatory statements that were made against her were on a public platform, it was only right that he apologised publicly. “I am not in any way defending my actions, you are the mother of my son and I have a lot of respect for you, in me trying to set the record straight about me being an absent father to my son or me not caring or loving him, a lot of wrong happened in a short space of time during that interview. I own up to it as a man but most importantly as a human being,” he said. The Ndikhokhele hitmaker also said he would like to apologise to the women in South Africa at large for any distress, disappointment and hurt that he might have caused. “I hope that one day you will find it in your hearts to forgive me,” he said. Jub Jub further said that he would be attending sensitivity classes for his use of language and that he was working on himself as an individual. The seasoned presenter has also asked for privacy. “I ask that the media and the public please respect my privacy as I attempt to make things right with Kelly outside the public space,” he said. A post shared by Jub Jub (@official_jubjub) 