GAUTENG Judge President Dunstan Mlambo has promised a holistic gender transformation in the judiciary should he be appointed as chief justice. He said he would set a realistic timeline to achieve his plan. Mlambo told the Judicial Service Commission on Thursday, 3 February, that when he took over as judge president there were 49 male judges and 15 female judges on the bench. He said today there were 41 male judges and 38 female judges. “My statistics of how I have done in that regard speak volumes. I want to believe I have done my bit to drive gender transformation,” he said. He said he did not believe the issue of gender should arise when appointing a chief justice. “I don’t think the issue arises. If the question is, is South Africa ready? We have been ready for a long time,” said Mlambo. He was the third candidate to be grilled by the commission at the interviews held in Sandton, Joburg. Mlambo was asked about his minority judgment where he disagreed with his senior colleagues in a case where Limpopo farmer Jewell Crossberg shot and killed a Zimbabwean, whom he claimed to have mistaken for a baboon. The other judges said Mlambo didn’t properly evaluate the evidence. Mlambo said: “Well, I don’t agree with that. For the benefit of the commissioners this is a so-called baboon shooting case that happened in Limpopo. There was eye-witness evidence of someone who was not more than six metres away from the shooter and the majority sought to refuse to accept his eye-witness testimony which was direct of how the farmer shot at them based on him being contradicted on an unrelated aspect of his evidence and I found that not acceptable. “Further, I just felt that the majority didn’t factor in properly what I would call victim justice. This is someone who was shot by someone who says he was shooting at a troop of baboons. There was not evidence that there were baboons there. There were humans there. That’s what fortified my view in dissenting against a very strong-minded bench of senior colleagues.”