BANYANA Banyana coach Desiree Ellis has announced her squad that will travel to Zambia for their international friendly match against the Cooper Queens this month. Ellis named a squad of 25 local based players that will report to camp on Friday 4 Febuary to begin preparations for the international friendly match against Zambia. This match will take place on 12 February in the Zambian capital of Lusaka.  The friendly is part of Banyana’s preparations for their last round of African Women’s Cup of Nations Awcon qualifiers against Algeria. Banyana will host Algeria at home on 18 February, the venue is yet to be confirmed. They will then travel to North Africa for the return leg scheduled for 23 February. A winner of the two legged fixtures will qualify for the Awcon that will take place in Morocco late this year. Ellis said the trip to Zambia is only for local based players, however, 10 will be omitted on their return and they will be replaced by overseas based for the qualifying match against Algeria. “We have decided to call up local players for the first round of camp to ensure that our database continues to grow and that any newly selected players find their rhythm now. This is to give new players the know how in case they are needed in subsequent matches,’’ Ellis explained. “We have also included, in this coming camp, international Hilda Magaia. She is still in the country as she has not yet returned to her Swedish club, Moron BK. Also called up is Bongeka Gamede from the University of the Western Cape, but might not make it as she is struggling with a niggling injury,.” Ellis said she was confident Banyana will build on the momentum they have had in the past few years in which they dominated the Cosafa Region and recently won the Aisha Buhari Cup in Nigeria. In the last Awcon in 2018 in Ghana, Banyana lost to Super Falcons on penalties in the final after going the whole tournament unbeaten SQUAD Goalkeepers 1.	Andile DLAMINI 2.	Kaylin SWART 3.	Regirl NGOBENI 4.	Karabo MOHALE Defenders 5.	Antonia MAPONYA 6.	Koketso TLAILANE 7.	Karabo MAKHURUBETSHI 8.	Janine VAN WYK 9. Tiisetso MAKHUBELA 10.	Bambanani MBANE 11.	Asanda HADEBE 12.	Bongeka GAMEDE Midfielders 13.	Gabriela SALGADO 14.	Noxolo CESANE 15.	Thalea SMIDT 16.	Mamello MAKHABANE 17.	Robyn MOODALY 18.	Sibulele HOLWENI 19.	Oratile MOKWENA STRIKERS 20.	Lelona DAWETI 21.	Hildah MAGAIA 22.	Melinda KGADIETE 23.	Wendy SHONGWE 24.	Nthabiseng MAJIYA 25.	Rhoda MULAUDZI