SUPERSPORT United coach Kaitano Tembo could not hide his excitement after his team snatched a dramatic late winner to book a place in the second round of the Nedbank Cup. Without the services of his two trusted strikers, Bradley Grobler and Thamsanqa Gabuza, misfiring Iqraam Rayners scored in the 89th minute to break Maritzburg United’s hearts at the Harry Gwala Stadium on Wednesday. Rayners had scored one goal the entire season before the Ke Yona competition. However, he produced a moment of brilliance with a goal of the highest quality to become an instant hero. The down-on-confidence forward was praised for his goal by his teammates and the coach. The teams will play each other again in the Premiership at the same venue on Tuesday (7.30pm). The 51-year-old Tembo is already plotting the downfall of the Team of Choice in the league game at the same venue. “Rayners scored a brilliant goal, and we showed character to march through to the second round of the cup competition,” said a delighted Tembo. “We had a good work ethic and fought until the end without our top two strikers. Their absence gave the other players a chance to step up to be counted. “Rayners was brilliant, and he needs to keep on working hard. A little bit of consistency will go a long way? He needs to be calm in the final third of the field.” The three-time league champions grabbed a late 2-1 victory against Maritzburg in the Premiership in September. Thatayaone Thatayaone Ditlhokwe grabbed a late winner, and lightning struck twice as Rayners helped them complete smash and grab victory in the cup. Matsatsantsa are eyeing a third win in all competitions against the Team of Choice this season. Tembo is hopeful that they can collect the three points in Pietermaritzburg to complete the league double against the Team of Choice. “The way we won in the cup is important for the players, and they will realise that it will not be easy in the league. It will be easier to motivate them because we have to work hard to collect the three points,” added Tembo.