MAMELODI Sundowns co-coach Manqoba Mngqithi has played down the idea that his charges and Pitso Mosimane’s Al Ahly will have an easy passage to the Caf Champions League quarterfinals. Sundowns are in Group A with Al Ahly and two Sudanese outfits, Al Hilal and Al Merrikh. With the top two finishers qualifying for the tournament’s quarterfinal, Downs and Al Ahly are the favourites to finish in the top two. Despite starting on a positive note getting maximum points in a hard fought 1-0 win against Al Hilal at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium on Friday, Mngqithi believes any team can win their group, and they must fight hard in order to make it out of the group. “To be honest, the four teams that are in this group are all capable of going through,” Mngqithi stated. “I do not want to say who will go through. But I hope Sundowns is one of the two teams. “But the truth of the matter is that it’s not going to be easy for any team, mark my words. As the matches progress, it’s going to be very tight in this group. I think this is one of the strongest groups in the Champions League this season.” Last season Sundowns were knocked out in the quarterfinals by Al Ahly. And this season, the Brazilians are determined to go beyond that and possibly reach the final as they have added three quality signings, Teboho Mokoena, Bradley Ralani and Erwin Saavedra, who they believe will play a vital role in the continental competition. Saavedra arrived in Mzansi last Wednesday and was introduced as a substitute against Al Hilal. Mngqithi said the player was put in to get a feel of the competition: “The reason why we had (played) him was to fast-track his integration in the group. “Obviously, he is fit because he was playing in South America. And he has done very well for his team. But we had a little bit of a doubt because of his travelling which took about two days.” Downs’ Champions League journey will continue on Saturday when they travel to Sudan to face Al Merrikh in their second group match at Al-Salam Stadium (3pm, SA time). But before that, the Brazilians visit Baroka FC in a DStv Premiership match at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium tonight (7:30pm). Downs are on top of the log with 47 points from 20 matches, while Baroka are 15th with 13 points after 17 games.