MARITZBURG United coach Ernst Middendorp is a dead man walking. The German mentor is skating on thin ice as his side has not won a game in all competitions in their past 11 matches. The Team of Choice have won once in their last 15 matches, and if things do not improve, he could lose his job. SuperSport United dumped them out of the Nedbank Cup with a 1-0 defeat in the late stages of their match at the Harry Gwala Stadium on Wednesday. Iqraam Rayners broke their hearts with a stunning goal with one minute remaining, leaving Middendorp shell shocked. They play each other in the DStv Premiership on Tuesday (7.30pm) at the Harry Gwala Stadium in a game Maritzburg cannot afford to lose. The Tshwane-based side defeated them 2-1 in the league in September in Tshwane, and now to rub salt into the wound, they dumped them out of the cup competition. Another defeat in the league could potentially spell the end of Middendorp’s reign in charge of the Team of Choice. Middendorp could not hide his disappointment after the game, and he lamented their lack of concentration in the defence for the heartbreaking defeat. “We haven’t played for a long time and had a pre-season for five weeks with a couple of new players. The changes and the break affected us, and it was unnecessary to concede a goal like that. “I am disappointed because we conceded a goal because of an individual error. We have to show more responsibility. We kept on losing the ball easily. It is not the type of performance I expected and wanted to see. We have to be a little bit patient. There is no need to lose the ball like that,” said a furious Middendorp. He pleaded for time and patience to get it right, but he does not appear to have time on his hands as the results continue to elude them. The Team of Choice defeated Chippa United at 1-0 on 23 October in the Premiership and have not had luck ever since. They are 13th on the table with 15 points from 18 matches, and if things remain the same, Middendorp will be as good as gone. He needs love with Valentine’s Day coming up, and his players should shower him with lots of love to ease the pressure on him.