WITH the 2021-22 DStv Premiership campaign about to reach end of business, several coaches could find themselves unemployed should they not jerk up their game. There’s been an exchange of coaching change rooms from different PSL club, six to be precise, and more could still bite the dust. Since the start of this season, Orlando Pirates, Chippa United, Marumo Gallants, Baroka FC, Swallows FC and TS Galaxy, all have had a change of leaders in their dressing room. As the league heads toward the crucial stage where the top eight bracket spot is in demand, and the relegated axe hovering over others, there’ll surely be causalities. SunSport looks at coaches who are skating on thin ice and might drown before the current season ends. STUART BAXTER – KAIZER CHIEFS With Baxter having joined Kaizer Chiefs to deliver trophies, and nothing on the table as yet, the Scot runs a big risk of being dropped. Like any other previous Chiefs coach, Baxter has not delivered and Amakhosi fans already see red. Under Baxter, Chiefs are currently perched at position on the log, a position that doesn’t put them in good space to win the current season. It has been over six season that Chiefs haven’t won anything, and Baxter took over the position with the promise to drop something in Kaizer Motaung’s trophy cabinet before the season ends, but so far, zilch. ERNST MIDDENDORP – MARITZBURG UNITED Last month, the German-born mentor was given three league matches to turn the club’s fortunes around. Good for him is that he won the first game allotted three last week, beating SuperSport United 2-1. But that doesn’t mean he is safe. He needs to beat Golden Arrows and Mamelodi Sundowns in their next two games to ensure the club is safe from relegation. Under Middendorp, Maritzburg have struggled this season, and they are again among the relegation candidates. From 19 games, they have 18 points, which leaves them in position 12 – four points ahead of Baroka who are at the bottom of the table. KGOLOKO THOBEJANE – BAROKA FC Things are just not happening for Thobejane this season. And his facial expressions after every league game reminds many of his coined phrase: football will kill you real death. Thobejane was promoted from their DStv Diski Challenge team to replace Matsemela Thoka, who was demoted to work with the reserve team. Thobejane has registered just one win, beating Royal AM 1-0 in the final league match of 2021. This past weekend’s 4-0 defeat to Sekhukhune United was his fifth loss, while the club has managed three draws under his watch. He has collected a mere six points in nine matches, leaving them at the bottom of the table, starring relegation in the eyes. LEHLOHONOLO SEEMA – GOLDEN ARROWS It is no secret that Seema has not met expectations since he arrived in Lamontville at the beginning of the season, replacing Mandla Ncikazi. The former Chippa United mentor may also soon find himself having to look for a job elsewhere. Arrows finished last season in fourth place, however, they have been a shadow of their former self this season. They were recently booted out of the Nedbank Cup by the GladAfrica Championship side Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila. Arrows have failed to register a victory in six matches. They last recorded victory on 4 December last year when they edged Chippa United 2-1. They have not seen any progress this season, stuck on 10th place in the Premiership table with 22 points, and are not far away from the relegation zone – eight points ahead of bottom side Baroka. KURT LENTJIES – CHIPPA UNITED Lentjies has been lucky to be at the helm for this long. In November last year, the former player took over the reins after the club put Gavin Hunt on leave. When Chippa confirmed Hunt’s departure in December, Lentjies was given the job to steer the Chilli Boys sinking ship. But there has not been much change as the club faces relegation. Chippa are in position 13 – three points ahead of Baroka. Failure to move from the danger zone, could trigger Siviwe Mpengesi to make a change.