HE HAS been married for two years, but things have not always been fine. And he does not know where to turn to for help. This after he was allegedly raped by his mamazala! What’s even worse is that cops made fun of his trauma and turned him away. The 33-year-old man from Braamfischerville, Soweto told Daily Sun his mamazala started asking for a poke a year into his marriage. He didn’t hesitate to tell his wife about it and they both confronted her. ALSO READ: FORMER COP BUST AFTER MALL SHOP ROBBERY! She promised to stop, but came around whenever her daughter was not home to try to get a poke. “At some point I thought she was mentally insane because this behaviour is not normal. How do you go after your daughter’s husband?” he said. The man said his mamazala kept asking for a poke until she raped him on 26 January while his wife and kids were visiting her cousin. “My wife posted pictures of herself, the cousin and their kids and that’s how her mum knew I was home alone. She didn’t even knock. She just let herself into our house and went straight to the kitchen to get water.” She then allegedly stood in front of where he was sitting and demanded he took his clothes off. “I refused and she pulled a knife out of her coat. It was the biggest knife in our house,” he said. He said his mamazala then told him she would go to the police and tell them he wanted to rape her if he didn’t do what she wanted. “She even had that long knife to my throat. I could have fought her, but I was afraid she’d go to the police and lie that I assaulted her. She even promised to cut herself to make it look convincing,” he said. The man said she took off the coat and had nothing underneath. “She then came on top of me and gave herself the poke she had been longing for so much,” he said. He said he didn’t go to the cops immediately as he wanted to talk to his wife first. “I spoke to my wife and she encouraged me to open a case. I went to the Dobsonville Police Station, where I was made fun of by two police officers. “One of the officers even said I was at the police because I was afraid that my wife would find out. I regret going there,” he said. The man’s wife said this wasn’t the first time her mum went after her boyfriends. “Two of my exes left me because she asked them for a poke. At least it didn’t get to the point of rape. Now she’s done this to my husband. I’m hurt,” she said. When Daily Sun called the mum, she said she wasn’t interested in talking, but said her daughter knew where she lived if police were looking for her. Gauteng police spokeswoman Colonel Dimakatso Sello said no one should be turned away when seeking help at the police station. She advised the man to go back to the station and speak to the station commander. Siphosethu Nkuna of Shameless Men organisation said there were a lot of these cases in Mzansi, and the problem was that some men were afraid to report them because of the treatment they got from the police. 