HER colleagues gathered at Tembisa Christian Family Church in Ekurhuleni to pay their last respects. Wearing black and white, they sung and performed drilling exercises in Lebo Monene’s honour. The 30-year-old’s memorial service was held earlier today, Tuesday, 15 February after she was shot dead by her bully cop boyfriend last Wednesday, 9 February at the hospital. The cop from the Ekurhuleni Trio Task team later turned the gun on himself, but has survived. He’s currently under police guard at Milpark Hospital in Joburg. According to her colleagues, Lebo wanted to leave the abusive relationship but he wouldn’t let her go. HER colleagues gathered at Tembisa Christian Family Church in Ekurhuleni to pay their last respects.Wearing black and white, they sung and performed drilling exercises in Lebo Monene’s honour. pic.twitter.com/VjsPPq1kgh The two had a two-year-old daughter. The incident has sent shock waves across the country, with many calling for a tough stance to be taken against the perpetrator. ALSO READ: SUNPOWER: ARRESTED R30K PHONE RELEASED! Her family was all in tears when they walked into the church, where Lebo’s photos in front of the hall triggered sad memories. She was shot dead in the parking lot not far from her department after her cop boyfriend apparently drove inside the hospital premises in a state vehicle, demanding to see her. Even when her body left the hospital in a government mortuary van, her colleagues made sure she left with dignity. Covered in white sheets, they handed her body to the government mortuary van and made a guard of honour to let her body go. Lebo was based at the hospital’s Masakhane department. Today, instead of crying, her colleagues celebrated her life. Gospel star Bucy Radebe contributed a number of items. “We say enough is enough. Women can’t be dying at the hands of their in partners,” said Bucy. “We are here to celebrate her good life as a dedicated nurse. Someone who despite the challenges she faced at home, came to work to serve.” Acting nursing services manager, matron Violet Ramalapa said: “Lebo always served with a smile. Losing two hands to us is losing eight hands,” Her line manager, matron Nare Kobe, who started working in 2016 as a permanent worker in ward 7, said: “She was that lady with respect. She was like my PA and she reminded me of important tasks to be done. She had just prayed in our department when she was called to come to the parking lot.”