MAMELODI Sundowns will have little time to bask in the glory of their historic win over Al Ahly in Cairo as they must swiftly turn their attention back to their bread and butter – the DStv Premiership. The Tshwane giants stunned former coach Pitso Mosimane’s Red Devils 1-0 at the Cairo International Stadium on Saturday in their Caf Champions League Group A encounter to clinch their first win over Ahly on Egyptian soil. Thapelo Morena’s solitary strike in the second half ended Ahly’s dominance over Downs in Egypt. The Brazilians had lost their previous five matches in Cairo, failing to score in the process. Having finally bagged that elusive win, Downs now turn their focus to the league where they intend to maintain their stranglehold in the title race. They face TS Galaxy at Mbombela Stadium on Wednesday (7.30pm) hoping to extend their 16-point lead at the top of the Premiership table. Downs co-coach Manqoba Mngqithi could not hide his excitement after overcoming Ahly after multiple unsuccessful attempts. “We have always wanted to win in Cairo, if you check the stats of the last two matches we have played there you will see that we dominated on every front,” said Mngqithi. “We were dominant, but we were unfortunate to be punished after making some silly mistakes. I believe we deserved to win the last two matches. “Even last year, we believed that we could beat them. We had a team that we knew had a chance of winning. We anticipated what they might bring and with the team we have, we were confident that we would have a result. “We were still unhappy about what happened last year because we believed that we deserved to win that match too.” Mngqithi was quick to give credit to former Sundowns coach Mosimane for laying the foundation that has allowed him and co-coach Rhulani Mokwena to flourish. “I think that’s also a win for coach Pitso because he laid the foundation,” added Mngqithi. “He always says this team still plays his football. If Ahly lose and we win, then I believe coach Pitso still wins for me.”