A NEW kind of comfort zone is on its way to shake up the status quo. The sixth-generation C-Class offers luxurious comfort, a minimalist design and cutting-edge tech. The Mercedes-Benz C-Class is unstoppable as a global success story. Since its debut in 1982 with the introduction of the so-called “Baby Benz 190”, more than 10,5 million C-Class cars have been sold in more than 100 markets worldwide. At least R13 billion has already been invested in numerous upgrades at the East London plant in preparation for the production of the new model, providing a major boost to the local automotive industry.  Mercedes-Benz Cars president and co-CEO of Mercedes-Benz SA Mark Raine said the fact that East London is one of three global manufacturing plants for the new C-Class is an unparalleled success story for the local industry.  “The new C-Class is a sporty interpretation of modern luxury. It combines dynamic proportions with accentuated design lines and a modern look. I am confident the new one will excite customers and future fans with its wide range of high-tech and superior features,” said Raine. The new C-Class features a dynamic exterior design and luxurious interior that takes inspiration from the flagship S-Class and sets new standards in efficiency.  “It will be launched in South Africa initially with the C200 and C220d engine derivatives, both sporting four-cylinder units,” said marketing and sales vice-president Selvin Govender.  The C200 boasts power delivery of 150kw and 300Nm of torque while the C220d delivers 147kw and 440Nm of torque. The engine range has only four-cylinder units from the Mercedes-Benz engine family. The engine range plays a major role in the flexibility of the international production network, with need-based electrification. In addition to turbocharging, both the diesel and petrol engines now have an integrated starter-generator for intelligent assistance at low engine speeds as a mild hybrid of the second generation. This ensures outstanding power delivery. Pricing: C200 – R849 000 C220D – R908 500