MAMELODI Sundowns’ tough Egyptian safari in the Caf Champions League is set to get tougher as they prepare for a titanic battle against defending champions Al Ahly. Downs will spend a week in Egypt for their back-to-back matches against Al-Merrikh and Ahly. They were held to a goalless draw by Sudanese outfit Merrikh in their Group A match played in the Egyptian capital on Saturday, and now prepare for the big one against Ahly. The result against Merrikh has piled more pressure on Downs to get something out of their massive encounter with Pitso Mosimane’s Red Devils. However, Downs are up against it having failed to beat the Egyptian giants in their last five meetings. The Brazilians have found it tough to replicate their famous 5-0 win over Ahly, which came under Mosimane back in 2019. They have since lost three times and drew twice in their last five matches against Ahly. Downs co-coach, Rhulani Mokwena, has played down his side’s desperation to finally get the better of Ahly, who have become a thorn in their side. Mokwena insists they want to beat every team in their group, and not just Mosimane’s Ahly. “We are aware that it’s a very difficult group. We can never make that mistake of focusing all our attention on Al Ahly,” said Mokwena. “It’s a group where 12 points put you in a position where you can qualify as number one in the group. The reality is that Al Ahly only offer you six points and you have to fight for the rest from the other teams. You must give them the same respect as you would give Al Ahly. In fact, the other games are probably more important in that space. Everyone was disappointed when we only beat Al-Hilal 1-0. “We can never be sidetracked by playing the name instead of the match. We have matches to play and we have objectives to reach. The first objective is to qualify for the knockout stage. It’s not to beat Al Ahly. We have to play every single match to try and win.” The clash will also see Mokwena and his co-coach, Manqoba Mngqithi, get another chance of trying to beat their predecessor Mosimane. The pair could not get the better of Mosimane in two attempts last season, losing 2-0 away from home before they were held to a 1-1 draw at home.