ALFRED Ndengane says a win over SuperSport United in the Nedbank Cup last-32 at Harry Gwala Stadium tomorrow (6pm) can be used as a yardstick to kick start their season. This is because the Team of Choice are in dire straits and in need of any kind of win to reboot their season that has fluctuated badly, having not won in the last 10 matches. Maritzburg have lost five and drawn the other five, which have plunged the club into the relegation zone. They have amassed only 15 points from 18 games and are lying 13th on the DStv Premiership table with 12 games to go. But Ndengane said everything is still in their hands to turn their fortunes around. The former Orlando Pirates defender, who joined Maritzburg at the beginning of the season, was encouraged to see the club go into the transfer market to bolster the squad. “It’s a good thing that we are starting the second half of the season against SuperSport, because they are a very competitive club in the league,” said the veteran Ndengane. “It’s not easy to get a result against them, but I trust and believe that we will get a win and proceed to the next round. That will motivate us to go to the league matches.” The 35-year-old Ndengane, who has featured in 17 league matches with one goal scored, knows what it means to win Ke Yona Cup and what it can do to your season. He was part of the Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila’s (TTM) side that stunned many to claim the Ke Yona trophy last season when they beat Chippa United in the final. TTM, who were also fighting relegation last season ended up finishing 12th, one spot ahead of Maritzburg in the Premiership. However, Maritzburg face a SuperSport side that since Nedbank took over as the sponsor in 2008, are the only club to have won it back to back. The Tshwane giants won the cup in the 2015-16 and 2016-17 seasons, beating Orlando Pirates in the final on both occasions. After the cup tie, Maritzburg host SuperSport again, this time in the DStv league also at Harry Gwala Stadium on 15 February.