Black Soap offers a solution for breakouts, hyper-pigmentation, stretch marks and everything in-between. It is your go to multi-purpose, budget-friendly product that ensures flawless skin! VP Herbal Black Soap is suitable for use on normal to oily skin. Made with all-natural activated wood charcoal contains a concoction of various oils, along with vitamin rich Shea butter. Benefits of VP Herbal Black Soap: Cleanses And Exfoliates The Skin: Rich in vitamin E and other emollients, it exfoliates your skin gently, getting rid of all the dirt and dead skin cells, and prevents signs of aging. Moreover, it is hypoallergenic and does not irritate your skin. It can be used for washing your hair as well. This soap has antiseptic properties that can soothe an itchy scalp. Safe to Use on All Skin Types: Usually, synthetic soaps contain a lot of chemicals and artificial fragrances that destroy the acid mantle of your skin and cause issues. VP Herbal black soap contains plant products and is fragrance-free. This soap is extremely gentle and helps in balancing your skin’s pH without stripping it of moisture. Soothes Irritated Skin: VP Herbal black soap can calm down your skin – whether it is excessively dry, or you have eczema and other skin allergies. It helps in clearing and soothing rashes and itching. Reduces Hyperpigmentation: Sun damage caused by excessive exposure to UV rays can leave ugly marks and dark spots on your skin called (hyperpigmentation). VP Herbal black soap contains shea butter that protects your skin from sun damage and minimizes dark spots and hyperpigmentation. Prevents Razor Bumps: After you have waxed or shaved, your skin needs proper exfoliation to prevent the dead skin cells from clogging the pores and causing razor bumps. Using VP Herbal black soap can help in preventing the bumps and infections that result from shaving and waxing your skin. Natural Moisturizer for the Skin: VP Herbal black soap made with all-natural activated wood charcoal contains a concoction of various oils, along with vitamin rich Shea butter, it is incredibly hydrating and beneficial for dry and combination skin types. Fights Acne: VP Herbal black soap helps with oily and acne prone skin conditions. It balances the natural oil of your skin and doesn’t let excess sebum clog your skin pores. It is very effective in controlling the proliferation of Propionibacterium acnes, the bacteria that cause acne.  RRP: R79.99 Available at Clicks and Dis-Chem stores