KAIZER Chiefs have started the year slowly, first getting dumped out of the Nedbank Cup before producing another timid display in the DStv Premiership in their 0-0 draw against Cape Town City on Tuesday night. They are yet to find the back of the net in 2022 having suffered a 1-0 loss to bogey side TS Galaxy in the cup and then playing to a dull goalless draw against the Citizens in Cape Town. But despite all this, Chiefs coach Stuart Baxter insists that there are some positives to take away from his side’s recent performances and it’s only a matter of time until they’re back to their best. “All in all, I think it was a better performance than TS Galaxy. It was a more controlled performance and with better movement around our front three and with better service, we would have collected maximum points,” said Baxter reflecting on their display against the Citizens. “We have to take the positives from our performance. We asked a lot of questions with our front three but we needed more movement. “We will take the positives and move on, we’ve got a while before our next match. We will play a friendly and hopefully, we can get everyone up to speed and have a go for the rest of the season.” Baxter also explained the absence of Nkosingiphile Ngcobo from the match day squad despite the youngster’s impressive performances in recent matches. The British mentor is under increasing pressure from the club’s supporters who are desperate to see the 22-year-old midfielder get more game time for the Glamour Boys. “We changed personnel because we wanted fresher legs,” explained Baxter. “Mshini (Ngcobo) didn’t play because he had a bacterial infection. We had sort of created a little role for him in that little number 10 position because he had been doing so well,” added Baxter. “But we went away from that and the changes had a positive effect. Of course, you’re not completely happy when you don’t win the game.” Chiefs, who have collected 29 points from 17 matches, will now enjoy a brief break before they return to action next weekend against Baroka FC.