O DEAR! Here we go again: someone new is challenging Danny Jordaan for the Safa president position, which should become vacant at some stage this year, a date of which would be decided by the incumbent and his executives. We’ve seen this story! Many tried and came back with bruises after pre-empting on their numbers and thought they’re good enough to put the 2010 Fifa World Cup chief executive down. This time around, Solly Mahlabeng, the incumbent Safa Tshwane president, has raised his hand up high to take the bull by its horns, and is confident of ousting Jordaan when the presidential elections are held. “We need to restructure Safa,” he said yesterday. He said that there’s a bloated number of executives (37) in the execs of Safa, a number he reckons needs to be whittled down and repositioned for the benefit of football in the country. Ace Ncobo, the celebrated former referee and businessman, was the strongest challenger of Jordaan in 2018, but had to pull out of the presidential race, leaving the latter winning by a whopping 234 out of 246 voters – two votes were reported to have voted against him, and one was a spoilt ballot. Ask Lucas Nhlapo and Mandla “Shoes” Mazibuko, a few who tried their luck to occupy the top seat at Safa House, and they bailed out. With that, they’re now out in the cold. Those voting executives aren’t trustworthy, they can be swayed in any direction on the last day, depending on what’s on the table – promises and declarations. It goes without saying that any potential campaigner for such a position must have made their due diligence and comfortable with the numbers. This is why Patrice Motsepe is today running Confederation of African Football (Caf), after confirming that his numbers put him at a winning advantage. And lucky for him, he won without being challenged. But locally at home, or any other elections, people change their minds inside the voting booth, something which Mohlabeng must be aware of, and is ready to pull a miracle. Anyway, he wouldn’t be coming out in the open that he stands for the position, and he said: “It’s time for change, football needs a new approach.” Mohlabeng, led by Soso Mashiloane in his campaigning team, has released a promising manifesto, but would it come out as practical before the voting executives, loyal to Jordaan? It depends on the last day! He’s not alone, Ria Ledwaba is also reportedly standing up against Jordaan to become the first woman to lead Safa. That would be refreshing, wouldn’t it? So far, we have a three-horse race, if Jordaan stand, but numbers could change at the last huddle. Someone with a vast football knowledge suggested that Motsepe, after his one year Caf term, must be brought to Safa to lead local football, but that can only be in 2025. It’s a democratic country and everyone is allowed to dream big, and no one is bigger than any organisation. But whether Jordaan will stand again this year for another term, remains a mystery.