FORMER Kaizer Chiefs dribbling wizard Junior Khanye should consider himself to be one of the luckiest people alive. He has survived not one, not two, but a staggering 15 road crashes during his career. “ALL THE ACCIDENTS WERE AS A RESULT OF DRIVING DRUNK,” HE CONFESSED! "All the accidents were as a result of driving drunk'" he confessed! Khanye shared his story at the launch of the Wrong Side Of The Road campaign by Diageo at Konka in Pimville, Soweto. The campaign, which was launched yesterday, seeks to address issues and educate people against drinking and driving. “I was involved in about 15 accidents. All of them because I was drunk,” he said. “I come from a very difficult background but I was meant to survive. Not everybody comes out of that.” He said he came from a bad situation that many children and many footballers didn’t come out of. “I’ve played with many superstars, and many super guns who are nowhere to be found now,” he said. He said what mattered now was that he listened to the calling. “I thank the ZCC church for giving me direction. I think football was a stepping stone, but I didn’t see that. I only realised that recently.” Khanye also spoke about his journey at Kaizer Chiefs after he joined them at age 17. “In one season I won young player of the season, I was man of the match nine times in a row and contender of the season. I made mistakes. I slept with so many women without protection,” he said. Other prominent names who were part of the launch were Banyana Banyana coach Desiree Ellis, Super Sport forward Bradly Grobler, former Kaizer Chiefs player Phumlani Mkhize and former Sundowns veteran, Hlompho Kekana. They all spoke of the dangers and consequences that come with overindulgence of booze, especially for the youth. Mkhize said alcohol ruined his life. “I had everything. Look at me now. I have nothing, not even one car, not even a wife or a house to sleep in. It affected my life, my career and everything else,” he said. “If I had managed to look after myself at that time when I was still actively playing, I wouldn’t have been in this situation.” 