FOR eight years, the Mananiso’s family has been battling a tombstone crisis. But instead of the problem getting better, it has become worse. ONE GRAVE HAS SIPHO’S BODY, THE OTHER HAS A TOMBSTONE AND THE THIRD HAS A HEADSTONE WITH HIS NAME! Sipho’s widow Mpho Mananiso (58) from Kagiso extension 2 in Mogale Cirty said that Manyane Diale, the CEO of Diale Funerals, promised to sort out the mess but now, she believes, he is giving her the runaround. “After the burial I was told my husband’s grave would be marked, but that didn’t happen.”  Mpho said when she went to monitor the progress while the headstone was being placed. She said she found Diale workers preparing the wrong grave. “They insisted it was the right grave and continued placing the tombstone. I believed them and thought perhaps I had made a mistake during the funeral,” she said. Mpho said they placed the tombstone worth R61 000. She said after the unveiling ceremony, she received a call from the Cemetery and Parks Department at Mohlakeng Municipality informing her that she erected the tombstone on the wrong grave. “That’s when I approached the Diale undertakers to get clarity and rectify the problem,” said Mpho. She said Manyane arranged a meeting with the families and agreed that his employees had made a mistake. “He agree that his company would fix the mess.” “He said he would pay for everything including the new tombstone, the cleansing of my home and pay for everything to make it up to the family.” They arranged a sangoma for the cleansing. She said they paid the sangoma R500 of her R3 000 fee saying that she would get the rest when the Diale gives them the money. “Now he’s not answering our calls and he is not at his office. “My husband’s tombstone is still sitting in somebody’s graveyard. I will never allow Diale to put this second hand tombstone on my husband’s grave,” said the weeping widow. “My husband has three graves in one graveyard. I need my husband’s body exhumed so we can be sure. How can we be sure next time that we are putting the tombstone on the right grave.” She said Diale was disrespecting her as she’s a poor widow. In a 30 minutes recording supplied by the Mananiso’s of a meeting between them and Diale, he agreed that his employees fumbled. “Those people who made that mess are no longer working here so I would like to apologise. I will take the responsibility,” he said. Diale confirmed to the families that the municipality has the correct information. “You can go choose a new stone and we will put it on the right grave,” Diale said in the recording. Manyane Diale of Diale Funerals said he was waiting for a date from the family for the erection and unveiling of the tombstone. “It’s unfortunate when an elder lies like this. We have proof of our arrangements. The woman asked that we do a cleansing first. She gave us a list of the things she wanted for the cleansing including a sheep and chickens which we delivered. She said she will give us the date,” he said. Diale said he even paid the manufacturers for the tombstone the family wanted. Head of Communications at the Rand West Municipality Phillip Montshiwa had not responded to the enquiry at time of going to print.