Kaizer Chiefs marketing director Jessica Motaung says the club's board is confident of winning the case against the PSL. Chiefs in December last year failed to pitch for their scheduled DStv Premiership matches against Cape Town City and Golden Arrows respective, due to reported cases of positive Covid-19 test results at their Village. It came to a stage where Amakhosi reported over 50 club staffers having contracted the killer disease. Amakhosi forfeited two games last year due to Covid-19 cases in their camp, and they have an arbitration case pending against the league on the matter. Motaung said: “We are confident of winning the case because we followed the laws and did what was best for everyone. We look forward to winning the case, and we have nothing to worry about. The case is ongoing, but we followed the rules of the country. We care about our players and the opposition, and Covid-19 put us under pressure, and we could not risk our team.” She was speaking at the partnership announcement with motor manufacturing giants Toyota in Joburg on Wednesday, Motaung admitted that things are not going well on the pitch. She has given up on their slim hopes of winning the DStv Premiership title.Motaung now targets a top-three finish as the club extends their trophy drought for seven years. The Soweto giants are in fifth place with 29 points from 17 games, and Motaung said they are realistically out of the running for the league title. Amakhosi will wear the logo of their vehicle partners on the sleeves of their jerseys until 2023 in a multi-million rand sponsorship agreement. “We would love to finish the season in the top three, and we will use the remaining games to build for next season and take it to the next level. The challenges are part of the journey, and we are going through challenges. It is a journey that we need to travel,” said Motaung. Kaizer Chiefs have announced Toyota as the club’s sleeve sponsor. This forms part of the renewal of Amakhosi longstanding partnership with the maker of Quantum and the legendary “Zola Bud” minibus taxi@City_Press pic.twitter.com/hH3soLfye4 CHIEFS ANNOUNCE NEW SPONSOR #KaizerChiefs https://t.co/HS18LeZAbc pic.twitter.com/WL9dQWzDqy Toyota solidifies its partnership with Chiefs to include Jersey Branding “It is thrilling for us to once again align with a multinational company such as Toyota, that is so prevalently invested in the growth of sport in South Africa and the world,” says Jessica #KCtoyota pic.twitter.com/erFTKKb95k    