TS SPORTING coach Benson Mhlongo is more worried about saving them from relegation than progressing further in the Nedbank Cup. The Mpumalanga-based outfit are battling relegation in the GladAfrica Championship, and Mhlongo is prioritising their safety over a fairy-tale run in the cup competition. Sporting play Swallows in the first round of the Ke Yona Cup at the Dobsonville Stadium in Soweto tomorrow (3pm). It’s a battle of “David versus Goliath”, and on paper, the Soweto giants are favourites to book their place in the next round. As for Sporting, progressing to the next stage would be a bonus as the coach wants to help them avoid relegation. “I came here to take the players from the level they are into to another one,” said Mhlongo. “I have to take the team out of relegation. I will teach them how to win games. If they don’t believe in themselves, they must quit. Sporting are 14th with 15 points from 17 matches, and the former Orlando Pirates defender wants them to beat the drop. Black Leopards and Jomo Cosmos are in 15 and 16th place with 14 and 13 points from the same games, respectively. “I came here to change the players’ mentality, and anything else will be a bonus. Anything is possible in football. We want to use the game to test the team’s readiness in the battle against relegation. I will allow the boys to play their game without fear,” he added. Swallows are in a similar situation in the DStv Premiership, but their coach dreams of going all the way in the Ke Yona Cup. Kerr won the competition with Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM) last season, and wants to win it again. “It’s a massive competition in the country, and I want to win it again. Last season everyone wrote us off when we won it at TTM. “My ambition is to go all the way with Swallows. We have a tricky game against a team from the lower division. We will not underestimate them because they can surprise us,” said Kerr. The Birds are in 14th place with 14 points from 18 matches, and Kerr said he is prepared to juggle the two competitions.