 PITSO Mosimane has all the reasons to be wary of Mamelodi Sundowns ahead of Saturday's crunch Caf Champions League clash at the Cairo International Stadium (9pm). The Brazilians spent the week in Egypt and played no friendly, except for training matches against themselves, while Al Ahly had league matches midweek, which could have given a hint to Downs about his team. Co-coaches, Manqoba Mngqithi and Rhulani Mokwena, must have spent the entire Tuesday analysing the Red Devils’ Egyptian Premier League clash. They had the luxury of watching Mosimane’s side demolish Misr Lel Makkasa 4-0 in the league, and surely the duo had their notepads and pens out. Mosimane admitted it’s always hard to play against his former club that have been on a form of their lives in the PSL and Champions League. “I respect them,” he said. But there’s always tension between Mosimane and Sundowns, following ugly scenes last year in May when a section of the fans clash in the Brazilians colours. They blockaded an Al Ahly team bus and hurled insults at him. Last year’s tense Champions League second leg quarter-final, which the Egyptians won 3-1 on aggregate, will surely raise memories of the ugly scenes and even anger Al Ahly fans. The Egyptian FA have since applied to the Confederation of African Football (Caf) to have the stadium open to fans, surely seeking their backing to make it uncomfortable for Sundowns. Sundowns have done everything they could to ensure they were ready for every trick Al Ahly might have up their sleeves. Said Mokwena: “We are prepared. We know where they are strong and where they are weak. We have watched their games. “We know in a match like this, preparation becomes an invisible match, if you want to put it like that. We know they are also prepared for us. “We have to put ourselves in a position where the universe thinks about us when it decides who to favour. The universe only understands the language of work ethic,” he said. “We want to put ourselves in a position of favour. There is not a single detail we have missed unless it is something they have prepared over the last two days, which is difficult to do. “We know they had a match midweek. They couldn’t have had enough time to come up with new things, so we do not expect any surprises from them.” Nevertheless, Sundowns are still at the summit of Group A with four points from two matches but Mosimane’s Ahly is breathing down their neck in second place. Downs could be without new signing Bolivian Erwin Saavedra after he limped off with a knock in the last match.