SOLOMZI Ntwana (46) and his two-year-old son were shot and killed on Tuesday, 8 February. They were shot outside their home in Grabouw, Cape Town. He was an employee at the Theewaterskloof Local Municipality. Jonguxolo Ntwana, Solomzi’s dad, said his son went to see other family members with his son and daughter. He came back at about 10pm. “We are still shocked. We are left with so many answered questions, and I doubt we will ever get answers,” said Jonguxolo. Jonguxolo had just came from the Eastern Cape to check on how his son was doing.  “He just had an operation and was not driving for too long. Now that he was recovering well, this happens. I was here to check on how he was doing not to plan his funeral,” said Jonguxolo. Solomzi’s 2-year-old son was found at the back of his dad’s seat. “He went out with is two kids. When he returned, his daughter went out while he was pulling inside. If she didn’t go out to direct his father on how to park, she would be dead by now,” he said. Jonguxolo heard gunshots, but he never thought his son and grandson were being killed. “It never crossed my mind that the gunshot was killing my son and grandson. I cannot recall how many shots were fired,” he said. After it was quiet, he went outside and was shocked to see his son bleeding. He came closer and saw that he was shot in the head and chest.  “We are praying that whoever did this gets arrested and pay for what they did,” he said. A neighbour said the deceased was a people’s person. “He loved everyone, he didn’t deserve to die like this, and I pray the perpetrators get arrested,” said the resident. Colonel Andre Traut said the circumstances surrounding a double murder are under investigation following an incident on Tuesday at about 9.50pm in Charmaine Street, Grabouw. “An adult male and his son aged three were shot and killed in their vehicle by an unknown suspect who is yet to be arrested,” said Traut. He said the motive for the murders was not yet known. Any person who can shed light on the matter is kindly requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111.