 Organisers of the highly anticipated entertainment and lifestyle gathering today announced the return of the 3rd annual Cotton Fest set to take place in March 2022 in Newtown, Johannesburg. Our theme for 2022 is "university and campus" and we have created our very own university of COTTON FEST campus through which the festival will offer a multi-layered university campus experience including a concert, merch, cafeteria, sport area and even lockers for you to store your personal belongings. With the return of the class of COTTON FEST 2019 and the sophomores from 2020, together with the freshers of 2022, it’s almost time for the graduation of the Class of 2022 at The University of COTTON FEST.  Known for merging both established and upcoming South African talent,  COTTON FESTnot only showcases the diversities in music while fusing the gaps within the different local current movements. With best South African artists expected to perform over 3 stages, this action packed two-day festival returns to The Station in Newtown on the 19th & 20thMarch.Celebrating all South African talent, Cotton Fest not only showcases the diversities in music at large, but it also celebrates various lifestyle elements within the ‘culture,’ including fashion and sport. THE CONCERT: The COTTON STAGE will feature headline and legacy artists. The
Bettr  STAGE will feature the New Wave of young talent. The Jägermeister
STAGE will bring the best nights featuring House and Electronic talent, alongside
some of the biggest names on the Amapiano scene right now. SPORTS AREA: A half-court will be set up for basketball fans, along with a
skating ramp for skating enthusiasts. FASHION: Various merchandise hubs will stock unique pieces, limited branded fashion
items and other sought after accessories. CAFETERIA: Food Court bringing you a huge variety of delectable options and
several fully stocked bars positioned around the venue. MORE: There'll also be photo booths set up for content creation as well as
various chill areas to relax, recharge and reboot.    “Following
the past 20 months that we have all lived through, we are humbled to be back
yet again make an impact in the entertainment industry. With the huge support
and backing from artists from around the country, we are ready to kickstart the
road back to normality in a positive way, and get the Creator Economy going
again” says founder Riky Rick, “
With the industry currently flipped on its head,  Cotton Fest, together
with exciting partners hope to bring together the industry, and celebrate the
graduation of the first class from the University of Cotton Fest 2022.” In line with current government regulation,  tickets will be limited to
2000 per day.  To ensure the safety of everyone attending the festival, ALL festival attendees
– including all staff, partners and performing artists – will need one of the
following to gain access into the venue:  Tickets will be on sale at Webtickets and Pick 'n Pay outlets nationwide from
Monday 31stJanuary. Options include:  Instagram:
@CottonfestjhbFacebook:
@CottonFestJHBTwitter:
@CottonFestJHBwww.cottonfest.co.za 