MAMELODI Sundowns co-coach, Manqoba Mngqithi, reckons Al Ahly coach Pitso Mosimane was “cheated” by the football governing body Fifa. This comes after the Al Ahly mentor was snubbed at the prestigious Best Fifa Awards, despite his numerous achievements. According to Fifa, the awards are given to the outstanding coach in football as voted for by an international jury made up of a number of players (one per team), coaches (one per team), journalists and fans. Mosimane has met all the criteria and has enjoyed a year that holds up in comparison to any of his peers. He has not, though, been granted the same recognition. When Fifa published their shortlist for its men’s Coach of the Season award, Mosimane, who had won three continental titles last year, defended the Caf Champions League title and won two African Super Cups, was not part of the list. Chelsea’s Thomas Tuchel was the eventual winner. Italian national team’s Roberto Mancini and Manchester City’s Pep Guardiola, are the three men’s coaches who made the top three. On Saturday, Mosimane will lead Ahly in the 2021 Club World Cup against Mexican club Monterrey in their first game of the competition, which will get underway today. “We are happy as South African coaches to have one of our ambassadors representing us at that stage and shaping the world what we are capable of,” said Mngqithi. “If we are being honest to ourselves, he has been cheated by Fifa by not getting the Coach of the Season award. If you consider the number of continental trophies he won in one year, or maybe it is because he is African, he is coming from this continent – he does not deserve to get the credit that he deserves? “It is very difficult to win two Champions Leagues and Super Cups in one year and still not be selected. But we have to respect these decisions because we Africans are humble. “We are not arrogant, but the truth of the matter is, if you look at the balance of the things, he should have been the one to take that award. Mosimane will be making his third appearance at the club World Cup having been there with Sundowns and Al Ahly on the past two occasions. Mngqithi added: “Maybe now he is getting another chance to go to the Club World Cup, he can show the quality he can bring.”