MODEL and influencer, Sarah Langa, is asking for married women to stop treating divorced women like a contagious disease. Sarah, who is a divorcee herself, was married to Jehan Mackay for two years before heading for divorce in 2019. Taking to Twitter on Monday, 21 February she posted a thread on how her journey as a divorced woman has been. “Married women and women in committed relationships really need to stop treating divorced women like divorce is some super-contagious disease. Women will humiliate us, bully us, alienate us and judge us for deciding to try seeking a healthier life in less toxic environments,” she wrote. Sarah said they have become easy targets and are facing one battle after the other. “We become such easy targets because we don’t have the emotional and physical support to fend for ourselves, dealing with the admin and emotions of a divorce becomes so draining that any additional stressor that catches you off guard has 10 times the impact,” she wrote. “It’s one battle after the next – first, with your ex-spouse and then with insecure women who have been waiting to catch you on your knees,” she said. ALSO READ : FAMOUS SINGER ESCAPES ABUSE! She added that instead of using divorced women to guide them in their marriages, they treat them badly. “Firstly, it’s a whole lost opportunity for the fact that having divorcees in your social group can be such a useful tool in learning through their experiences and in guiding you to avoid making the same mistakes people usually make in marriages. Instead, y’all want to treat these resourceful women like women of no value and vultures that are after your men. “Your man is not even my type and even if he was, as a woman who has recovered from heartbreak and has had to deal with the stress and anxiety of a divorce, the last thing I would want to do is bring that to another woman,” she insisted. Closing off her thread, Sarah said she hopes it helps people. “Anyway, I hope this thread helps anyone who felt alone now feels heard, these are issues that people never speak on and it’s important that we have these conversations to reflect and be more considerate and kind,” wrote Sarah. Married women and women in committed relationships really need to stop treating divorced women like divorce is some super contagious disease. Women will humiliate us, bully us, alienate us and judge us for a deciding to try seek a healthier life in less toxic environments. 