EVEN though Mamelodi Sundowns are favourites to complete the treble, defender Mosa Lebusa won’t count his chickens before they hatch. Few can bet against the Tshwane giants bagging the domestic treble this season, but Lebusa warned nothing is guaranteed yet. The Brazilians have already clinched the MTN8 title, they are in pole position to defend their DStv Premiership title, and they sealed their passage into the Nedbank Cup second round. However, Lebusa insists football is a game of surprises and instead wants his teammates to take things one step at a time and not entertain any thoughts of winning the treble. The Brazilians will host minnows from the third-tier ABC Motsepe League Mathaithai in the Ke Yona Cup competition. They are at the top of the Premiership table with 48 points from 21 matches, followed by Orlando Pirates in second place with 30 points from 19 games. Everything is coming together, and they seem to be an unstoppable force. But Lebusa said that they must maintain their focus. “Our schedule is hectic, and we play a team that we know little about in the domestic cup. We have a home game and I’m happy as travelling can take its toll on the team, but the approach is always the same whether we play a PSL or a lower league team, and our quality will push us over the line,” said Lebusa. “However, we do not want to count our chickens before they hatch, and not think that we have already won this one. “We still have many games to play in the Premiership and Champions League, and do not want the excitement to get the better of us. We are 100% focused on the process and working hard to make sure that we win everything on offer. “We work hard at training. But sometimes things do not go the way you want them in football. It is always about winning the next game and not thinking about the trophy,” The 29-year-old Lebusa has lost his place in the starting line-up to Brian Onyango and Rushine de Reuck, but he is willing to double his efforts to reclaim his place in the team. He started training after a lengthy injury, and he is happy with his fitness level.