KAIZER Chiefs disciplinary committee (DC) matter of failing to honour two DStv Premiership matches in December has been postponed again. This was revealed by the PSL prosecutor Zola Majavu on Friday stating that in order to allow arbitration at the SA Football Association (Safa) to be completed, the matter will be heard between 28 March and 1 April. Chiefs failed to honour two league matches in December last year citing exorbitant positive Covid-19 test results. Chiefs stated that more than 50 personnel had tested positive at the time and they were forced to temporally close their clubhouse in Naturena. “As matters stand, there was a request for the matter before the PSL DC to stand down until after the determination of the arbitration, which itself has been pencilled in for the 15th and 16th of March 2022,”  Majavu said on Friday. “It may well be that the outcome of that particular arbitration may signal the end of the matter before the PSL TC or in the event that arbitrator rules against Kaizer Chiefs it may pave the way for unhindered proceeding with the matter which I will be prosecuting before the PSL TC until it is finalized. “For pragmatic purposes, the DC has ruled that the matter be postponed to any of the two consecutive days between the period of 28 March 2022 and 1 April 2022. The exact dates will be finalized by me as the prosecutor, having consulted with my opposite number, once the arbitrators ruling has come out, and obviously to the extent that it may have gone against Kaizer Chiefs. “Conversely, if it has gone in favour of Kaizer Chiefs that may well be the end of that matter and this case would then be regarded as definitively resolved, as the outcome of the arbitration process is final and binding and not appealable. “However, if the matter were to proceed before the PSL DC, and Kaizer Chiefs found guilty, hypothetically the case would then proceed to the next stage, which is sanctioning where they will be sanctioned in accordance with the policy of the league. “And of course, from there, it remains open to them to exercise whatever appellate processes that may be available to them.” “At this stage, we do not wish to pre-empt the outcome of either processes, I was merely explaining the process so that you as a football loving community can have a full appreciation of our entire judicial value chain, so that there ought not to be any room for any conspiracy theories,” Majavu assured that the  matter will be finalized definitively one way or the other before the end of the current season.