BRENDA Marolen, suspended Central Gauteng Athletics (CGA) member, blasted the regional federation for “unfairly suspending” her and vows to appeal the decision. The 54-year old social runner served CGA with a lawyers letter demanding justice and fairness in her hearing. The Urithi Athletics Club runner claims that she suffered reputational damage due to the suspension notice made by CGA. Marolen, Tolamo Maubane of Remmogo Athletics Club, Susana Masuku of JFRAC, and Nicky Lofafa were found guilty and suspended for 18 months on allegations of violating the constitution of CGA. The Pegasus Athletics Club was also believed to have been found guilty of an attempt to usurp the authority of CGA to destabilise the body. The club was found guilty for bringing communication protocols that brought the sport into disrepute, and they were suspended for 18 months. The governing regional body suspended the quartet for allegedly forming its “union” without allegedly following the relevant processes, something the suspended are arguing. However, Marolen hits back at CGA and denies the accusations against her. Marolen said the “union” statement is not entirely true, and in her communication with CGA, that is not the reason for her suspension. “They charged me for treason, but refused to give me the right to appeal the suspension,” Marolen told SunSport at the weekend. “I went to Athletics South Africa (ASA) to challenge the suspension, and they told me to go back to CGA. “CGA promised to get back to me, but they never did. My lawyer issued CGA with a letter of demand. They must allow me to make my appeal and clear my name. “It is damaging my business. I’m a businesswoman, and the suspension brought a negative implication in my life.” Marolen said she is speaking on her behalf, and not for the others (suspended). She insisted it was a social cohesion group that assisted runners with donations, not a union, as alleged. “I was part of the WhatsApp group, not a union. Maybe it is a parallel structure because we assisted athletes with donations. “It’s a social group, not a union. They misrepresented the facts. They must review their decision,” added Marolen. CGA general manager Mandla Radebe said he would respond to Marolen after her legal process. “She served us with court papers, and I cannot comment further until the end of the legal process. The matter is in the hands of the lawyers,” said Radebe.