ATHLETICS SA boss James Moloi has ruled himself out of the Central Gauteng Athletics presidential race. Moloi will not contest for a third term at CGA as he wants to shift his focus to running the national athletics governing body. Moloi served two terms on the regional athletics board, and he will hand over the reins to the upcoming president on 5 March. The 55-year-old long-serving CGA president won the race for the ASA presidency by 12 votes when he received 39 votes against 27 votes to defeat Aleck Skhosana, who had served a six-year term as the ASA boss in May 2021. Moloi served CGA structures for more than 10 years, taking on various leadership roles within the regional body during his time. But he insists that it is wise to quit when you are ahead of the game and leave your integrity intact. “You cannot be a referee and a player at the same time. I served CGA to the best of my abilities, and it is time to hand power to someone else in a peaceful way. I am not a selfish person and cannot take charge of the two organisations at once. “I cannot split myself into two and run both organisations. I indicated that if I won the ASA presidential race, I would quit and give others a chance to things forward,” Moloi told SunSport yesterday. Under Moloi, CGA hosted more events than any other regional athletics body in the country during the lockdown period. “In my time as the leader of CGA, we put the athletes first, and the record speaks for itself.  I am leaving CGA in good hands financially and administratively,” explains Moloi. Moloi wants to focus on his mission to get the sport back on television and lure sponsors back to ASA. “We have the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham and the World Athletics Championships in Oregon, in the USA in July, and we have other local races that need my undivided attention, and we want to take SA athletics to the top,” vowed Moloi. Reports indicate that Queen Mofokeng of Khomanani Athletics Club and CGA cross country commission chairperson Steven Khanyile are challenging for the vacant presidential position.    