It is normally said that “silence in the midst of injustice is self-betrayal”. On this note, I’d like to express my dismay and unhappiness over Eskom implementing load reduction in all Bushbuckridge villages for about for hours for not less than five days a week. This operation has been going on for more than three years. This is a serious inconvenience and takes away the people’s right to have access to electricity. Cutting off electricity supply during peak hours is tantamount to plunging the already impoverished public into total chaos. In the morning, kids are preparing to go to school and without power, this becomes a predicament. In the evening, they are busy with homework. Therefore, not having electricity disadvantages children to the core. Eskom has no right to implement load reduction on people who do not even use electricity for any other things except basic chores, such as cooking, ironing and boiling water. There are no big factories in our villages, so cutting off electricity supply in the name of load reduction is equal to punishing the wrong people. Small businesses suffer as owners are no longer able to supply their customers with food products that need electricity to prepare. Again, when there’s load shedding, load reduction still continues and the residents are made to go through three or more phases of power cuts, which essentially result in them not having electricity for more than 10 hours a day. This is gross injustice because load reduction is not justifiable in those villages, let alone legal. In the case of Resilient Properties (Pty) Ltd vs Eskom Holdings SOC Limited, the court held that load reduction is an unreasonable administrative decision. It was found that load reduction does not meet the requirements for administrative action in terms of the Promotion of Access to Justice Act of 2000. It was held that load reduction affects the rights of the poor as they are deprived of their right to access electricity. So this means that Eskom’s implementation of load reduction to non-paying municipalities is unlawful and can be challenged in court.