ANC veterans have committed to electing a single structure that will represent all stalwarts. This after years of divisions and an establishment of a parallel structure along factional lines. A preparatory structure for an all-inclusive elective conference of the uMkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) announced a conference on Thursday, to take place from 23 to 27 March at a venue yet to be confirmed. Committee chairman General Zimpande Msimang said the conference would mark an important milestone in the history of the liberation struggle, with an emphasis on transformation, reconstruction and development of the country. The conference had been put on ice on several occasions as MKMVA and the ANC Veterans Council could not find each other. This led to the disbandment of the two structures and formation of preparatory committee to prepare for an elective conference. Msimang could not comment on whether the sticky issues that separated the two structures had been resolved. But, he alluded that senior leaders, in the spirit of honouring those who laid down their lives for the freedom of the country, were taking part in the conference. “Remember this is not an event; it’s a process, and hopefully with the guidance of the organisation, we will achieve our goal. We are going there to unite the structures,” said Msimang. He added that the conference would be preceded by visits to all provinces to inform the structures of the state of readiness. Msimang said members of both the MKMVA , council and ex-soldiers attached to the liberation movement would be invited to attend the provincial gatherings. He said it could never be over-emphasised that the majority of South Africans continued to live in conditions of poverty and squalor, with unemployment reaching an all-time low of 46%. “The country also continues to go through an enduring economic recession and depression, with the economy growing at the rate of less than 1%. This is against the expected and desirable minimum of 5%. It is worth noting that ex-MK cadres continue to bear the brunt of this rather untenable prevailing situation. Many military veterans continue to die and be buried as paupers; their dignity stands undermined; poverty, destitution and unemployment ravage their lives,” said the committee in a statement.