MAMELODI Sundowns co-coach Rhulani Mokwena says veteran midfielder George Maluleka will need to work extra hard and be patient to get his chance to play. The 33-year-old player was on the bench for the first time in as many months when Downs beat Chippa United 2-0 in the DStv Premiership match at Loftus Stadium on Monday. Said Mokwena: “Football is a funniest thing because a couple of months back we were asked why Gaston (Sirino) is not playing? “Now we have to answer why George is not playing? In football the law only allows us to play 11 players. We can only incorporate 16 players. We need a big squad because we are fighting on different fronts. “You need much quality. That’s what we have in any of these players including George Maluleka.” Mokwena revealed that he feels for players who come to training daily knowing their chances to play are slim. He admitted that coaches are sometimes unfair to the players. “I have nothing but complimentary words for George. I could say the same about Kermit (Erasmus), Lesedi Kapinga, Rocardo Gross, Reyaard Pieterse, and the list is endless. These are hardworking individuals who are always prepared to do more than what’s required of them, and at the end of day it’s unfortunate, but reality is sometimes we are a bit unfair to the players, although we try our best to give opportunities. “We gave Mothobi Mvala, Gift Motupa (opportunities) after a long time, Brian Onyango has only played his fourth game, if I am not mistaken. “If Musa and Grant come back, we have a serious (selection) problem. But sulking and moaning doesn’t help at Sundowns. What you must do is become professional and work hard.” Mokwena is aware that Maluleka could play regularly for any PSL side if Downs release him. “In fact, he can walk into the starting line-up of most PSL sides, that’s how good he is,” he said. “I cannot speak even in more glowing terms about George and his professionalism, and how he conducts himself. He prepares himself in a manner that if he is called upon, he can perform and give the right sort of level without any deterioration.”