MAZULU coach Benni McCarthy says he has a lot of love and respect for coach Pitso Mosimane, but he wants Mamelodi Sundowns to beat AL Ahly in the crunch up match in the Caf Champions League Group A at Cairo International Stadium on Saturday (9pm). McCarthy revealed that Mosimane is now an enemy, meaning that he’s on the side of Sundowns to beat the Egyptian giants. Not only that, McCarthy said seeing Sundowns going toe-to-toe with the best on the continent, gives his inexperienced Usuthu side morale and confidence. Usuthu, unlike Sundowns, are in the Champions League group stages for the first time in their history and they registred their second group win on the trot  when they beat ES Setif 1-0 in Group B match on Friday evening. “Pitso comes with great pedigree with Al Ahly and they have done extremely well with the Fifa Club World Cup (where they claimed the bronze medal for the second time on the bounce),” said McCarthy. “But games are also catching up on them with travelling, so it is not going to be easy. If I’m a betting man with my money - as much as I have a nice relationship with Pitso and a lot of respect for him, Sundowns is where my loyalty is and my support lies. “I want Sundowns to do well because they are representing South Africa as we do and Orlando Pirates (in the Confed Cup). We have to be supportive of each other. “So whether it is one of your favourite people that is coaching another team, but when he comes up against your countrymen, that’s what I’m rooting for. “I know Sundowns got what it takes to beat Al Ahly because they are not stronger away as they are when you play them in Egypt. I’m actually pointing out that Sundowns is going to win.” However, Sundowns, facing Ahly in Egypt, have their backs against the wall. They have lost all their five matches in Egypt against Ahly, conceding 10 goals and they are yet to score. This includes a Champions League final in December 2001 where they lost at the very venue in Cairo (3-0), after drawing 1-1 in Mzansi in the first leg. However, Sundowns did what no other side was able to do to Ahly in the Egyptians’ greatest history. The Tshwane giants hammered them 5-0 in the first leg of the quarter-final at Lucas Moripe Stadium in 2019. Mosimane was Sundowns coach then to hand a heaviest defeat suffered by the Cairo Red Devils in a Caf match.