HARD work, commitment, and planning are starting to pay off for TS Galaxy coach Sead Ramovic and his boys. The Rockets won back-to-back away matches in all competitions without conceding a goal, and the German tactician has every reason to smile and feel proud of his troops. They recorded morale boasting 1-0 victory against fellow strugglers Swallows FC in the DStv Premiership at the Dobsonville Stadium over the weekend. Augustine Kwem scored the only goal to take them off the bottom of the table to move to 14th place with 16 points from 18 games. Ramovic hailed his team’s character and hard work in a game they could not afford to lose against their nearest rivals in the fight against relegation. However, owner Tim Sukazi is concerned his players are picking up red cards at an alarming rate. While Ramovic is delighted with three points, his boss warned about the danger of picking up unnecessary red cards. Ebrahim Seedat’s red card almost cost the Rockets three points as he became the sixth player to receive a red card this season. Said Ramovic: “We worked hard during the six-week break, and the players learnt how to press the opposition. I am happy that we won and praise the team for their fighting spirit. “They fought for each other and played as a team. We have to keep going and work hard. We have 12 games remaining, and it is not going to be easy.” There is no time to reflect on their massive win against Swallows, as AmaZulu are up next at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban tomorrow (7.30pm). “We have to stay calm and prepare well for the next game against AmaZulu. We are heading in the right direction. We will give AmaZulu a tough time,” added Ramovic. Sukazi said his team is unlucky with red cards and would like them to be more careful with cards. “We were sitting with five red cards in the first eight games of the season. Those red cards were our defenders, and the defence had to change every second game, and we leaked goals. If it does not happen, we will survive. Five red cards in eight games are too much. If we stop getting red cards, we will be okay,” said Sukazi.