NO Fagrie Lakay, no problem for Cape Town City. The Citizens have moved swiftly to replace the Egypt-bound speedy forward. His replacement, Mogamat May, possesses a similar set of skills and attributes, and has plenty to prove in the big time. The 23-year-old joined the Citizens from Hanover Park, having impressed coach Eric Tinkler in the past few weeks while on trial at the club. Tinkler is convinced that they have another gem on their hands, and reckons they will hardly miss Lakay. “We have signed ourselves a promising young player. “He was having a great season with his former team Hanover Park. I think he scored 12 goals in nine games, so he is quite prolific,” said Tinkler. “He came to us on trial and did exactly what he was doing at Hanover Park. He scored a lot of goals in training and in the friendlies that we played so that generated interest and made it a no brainer for us to sign him. “He’s a natural goal scorer from what I can see, and he’s got a lot of pace and power. I think he’s a really great addition for us in the striking department.” May, the former Steenberg United and The Magic FC striker, will get his toughest test yet as he prepares to feature in the top-flight for the first time in his career. Nevertheless, the lad from Hanover Park in the Western Cape is eager to grab his chance with both hands. “It’s an honour to join this club. I am glad I got this chance. I’d like to showcase my talent at this club. I’ve been watching them for the past few years. They have won a few trophies and I believe I can add value to this team. I am quick, I’m very strong and I have an eye for goal. I am a very determined player,” said May. May will have to hit the ground running as he looks to fill the void left by Lakay’s departure to the Egyptian Premier League side, Pyramids. Lakay will link up with compatriots coach Pitso Mosimane and Bafana Bafana star Percy Tau of Egyptian giants Al Ahly in Egypt. He also follows in the footsteps of former teammate at the Citizens and the South Africa Under-23 national team, Gift Links, who also had a stint with Pyramids. Lakay scored five goals and provided three assists in 14 matches for the Citizens this season and will hope to replicate or surpass those numbers in Egypt.