IT HAS been almost eight years since Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa was killed. And his family is still looking for justice for his death. But it seems behind the scenes, drama might be tearing the family apart. THIS is because they are fighting about which legal representative should be allowed to represent the family in court. The Meyiwa family is currently represented by Afri-Forum, but Senzo’s brother, Sfiso, decided to appoint Advocate Malesela Daniel Teffo to continue with the case. However, Senzo’s mother, Ntombifuthi, told Daily Sun Teffo is not their legal representative. “I don’t know who advocate Teffo is. He has never spoken to me, has never come to my house and was never introduced to the Meyiwas. “He also does not have a mandate to represent us. Our legal representative is AfriForum. I’m happy with them and they’ve been representing us for some time. But I’m confused when I’m told there’s another legal representative,” said Ntombifuthi. She said she only learnt about Teffo a few months ago. “At the end of the day I want answers. I want to know the killers of my son, I want justice to prevail. Unfortunately, there’s a lot of interference in this case and it’s causing tension in the family,” she said. Senzo’s sister, Nomalanga said: “We don’t know Teffo and we don’t recognise him. He does not represent the Meyiwas. The last time he was in court he was blocked because he was not instructed by the family. We are still happy with AfriForum, and we are constantly communicating with them. The next court date is in April.” But Sfiso insisted that Teffo is their legal representative. “I told my mum that we are now using Teffo as our legal representative. I appointed him because I trust him. I can see the difference ever since he took over. But my mum is stubborn. She doesn’t want to dump Afri-Forum. If she continues to be stubborn, this case will be ruined,” said Sfiso. When Teffo was approached for comment, he said: “I’m not obliged to answer your questions.” 