THE families of nine pupils were left devastated after they died in a taxi accident on Wednesday, 16 February. Nombuso Radebe (8), Mpilo Ntumbe (9), Bongani Vilakazi (7n), Siphesihle Nhleko (11), Charmaine Sibiya (13), Lungile Sibisi (8), Abenathi Nhlabathi (5), Nothando Magagula and Slindokuhle Nkosi, both (6) were on their way home from school when the taxi they were travelling in overturned. Making it even more traumatic, the body of Nombuso, a grade 2 pupil at Sitanani Primary School, was only found on Thursday morning in the Mpuluzi River, Mpumalanga. Her gogo Suzan Nkosi said she received a call from the girl’s father, telling her about the crash. She then rushed to the scene. “When we got to the scene, we found children lying on the road. ALSO READ |
FONG-KONG 3AM COP KNOCK! “Some were seriously injured and others already dead. “We started to worry when we didn’t see our own child, and we launched a manhunt. “We only found her the next morning with the help of police and the community,” she said.  Suzan said Nombuso was a jolly child with a promising future ahead. Vincent Nkambule, the uncle of Charmaine and Sphesihle, said the kids’ parents didn’t know that the taxi was unroadworthy.“We only found out on the day of the accident and we are deeply saddened,” he said. ALSO READ |
CALL THE COPS IF YOU SEE THIS MAN! Abenathi’s mkhulu, g Ndoda said she did not want to go to school on Wednesday, and her gogo had to plead with her. “Our granddaughter was everything to us. “We had high hopes for her and we never thought she would leave us this soon,” he said. Mpumalanga Community Safety MEC Vusi Shongwe visited the scene. He called on the community to support affected families and let the law take its course. A 29-year-old was arrested and charged with nine counts of culpable homicide. He was also charged with overloading and driving without a valid licence, driving without an operating licence and driving an unroadworthy vehicle. He will appear in the Elukwatini Magistrates Court on Friday, 18 February.