VASCO da Gama were crowned champions of the 2021 Sasol League National Championship at Umlazi’s King Zwelithini Stadium on Sunday. They beat City Lads 4-3 in an exciting match witnessed by Safa president Danny Jordaan and his vice-president Gladwin White. The Cape Town club walked away with R200 000 while Lads earned R100 000. Vasco were dominant from the off, crashing the post in just the third minute the game started. They made it count as Astra Boks scored three minutes later, lashing the ball at the near post after Lads failed to clear their lines. Miche Minnies doubled the lead soon afterwards, though fortuitous as she was trying to cross, but the ball took an awkward bounce. However, Lads brought themselves back in the game, with Tarran January pulling one back as she was unmarked in the box and applied an easy finish to beat Jessica Williams. Former Banyana goalkeeper Roxanne Barker, now a striker for Da Gama, caught Lads goalie Amanda Nteyi with a powerful strike, scoring a third to make it 3-1 in the referee's added time. The Mother City club then dropped off in the second half, and it was evident after Barker was taken off as her focal point hustle was missed. It was then Lads who took advantage to make it 3-2 through Nosipiwo Bottoman. Da Gama shot themselves in the foot, conceding a penalty. Nandipha Booi, who scored a hat-trick in the semi-final, converted the spot-kick, beating Williams hands down. While it was game of proverbial game of two halves, Lads goalkeeper Nteyi mistimed her run to block Minnies, but the latter was too fast, beating her with speed before slotting the ball into the empty net to ensure they win the game. Meanwhile, Lindelani Ladies claimed the third spot due to their superior goal difference. As Lads and da Gama reached the final, they were promoted to the Hollywoodbets Super League, starting next month. Ladies and gentlemen your #SasolLeagueNationalChamps winners, @VascoDaGamaSA #womensfootball pic.twitter.com/oSyJiupbzS   Miche Minnies who’s the top goal scorer (six) is the player of the tournament.#SasolLeagueNationalChamps #womensfootball pic.twitter.com/IAUxP9Qgs1  