AS preparations for their titanic Caf Champions League encounter with Al Ahly intensifies, Mamelodi Sundowns co-coach Rhulani Mokwena has backed star striker Peter Shalulile to rise to the occasion and end his mini-goal drought. Shalulile has set the standards high since his arrival from Highlands Park at the beginning of last season – scoring bags of goals for the Tshwane giants in his first-season-and-a-half. But the Namibian marksman is currently enduring somewhat of a lean patch in front of goals by his lofty standards, having scored once in his last four appearances in all competition. This might not be a bad return for many strikers in Mzansi, but the lethal Shalulile isn’t your regular striker. Mokwena has little doubt in his mind that his star man will get back on the scoresheet sooner rather than later. He will be hoping Shalulile ends his mini-drought in arguably their toughest challenge yet, a Champions League battle with defending champions Al Ahly on Saturday at the Cairo International Stadium. “I think it’s only a matter of time before Peter scores,” said a confident Mokwena. “We know his qualities and what he gives to the team. It’s not just about putting the ball into the back of the net. We spoke about it before the last game. He’s responsible, like all our other strikers, to start defending from the top, to help us start creating possibilities for penetrative movements. “As long as he does that, and the bigger picture is for the team to benefit we are content.” Downs, who remained in Cairo after their last match against Al-Merrikh to prepare for Pitso Mosimane’s Red Devils, could be without new signing Erwin Saavedra. The Bolivian playmaker limped off in the last match and Downs, who are already without the likes of Gaston Sirino and Pavol Safranko, might have to find other options in attack. That shouldn’t be too difficult, given the strength Downs possess, Mokwena insists. “The reality is we still have possibilities within the squad. That’s why we’ve got to find the solutions and why we are here as coaches,” added Mokwena. “Fortunately, we worked on things in this break, in different structures in attack, to try to see whether we could play a different way without some of our key players in attack.”