A CRASH between a Golden Arrow bus and a light motor vehicle has left three people dead in Cape Town. The incident happened along the N7 at Vissershok near Table View on Thursday, 3 February. According to a witness who spoke to Daily Sun, the accident was caused by a VW Polo driver. It is alleged that the speeding driver, heading towards Malmesbury, bumped into the back of another car. This resulted in the car veering off the road, getting into the lane of oncoming vehicles and crashing into a bus. Three occupants died on the scene, and the driver was taken to hospital while passengers from the bus were treated for light injuries. Cape Town Traffic Services spokesman Richard Coleman said the collision had resulted in road closures. The bus services’ spokeswoman Bronwen Dyke-Beyer confirmed the incident, adding that 16 passengers were slightly injured during the crash. “Sibanye can confirm an incident that occurred this morning on the N7 at about 6am. According to eyewitnesses, the third-party car was travelling in the opposite direction when another one collided with it, causing the driver to lose control and cross over the island, landing underneath the bus. There was nothing that our driver could have done, given the speed at which everything occurred,” said Dyke-Beyer. She said the bus driver was also receiving treatment for shock. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the family of the deceased,” Dyke-Beyer said. Captain Frederick van Wyk said: “Shortly after 5am, police attended an accident scene. According to reports, a Polo drove into the back of a small utility vehicle, driving towards Malmesbury. The driver lost control and veered into the lane on the opposite side. An oncoming bus could not avoid colliding with the car. Three occupants of the vehicle, of whom their identities is still unknown, succumbed to their injuries at the scene. The driver of the Polo was transported to a nearby hospital before police arrived. Passengers on the bus were also transported to hospital for minor injuries, and two sustained serious injuries,” said Van Wyk.