FOUR Mpumalanga siblings who allegedly weren’t allowed at school in KwaMhlanga are now back in class. This after their father (62) took the two girls and two boys, aged between six and eight, out of school last year. He said the siblings had to stop attending in June after they had an unknown sickness. They used to disappear into the bushes. The dad told Daily Sun he informed the school he was going to stop his kids from attending as he wanted them to get help. “The children were fine around December. In January, I registered them at school. But I was told my children are not welcome because they are evil. “I was told the community doesn’t want them in school because they would influence other children. I was told to go.” The father said he went back to the school when schools reopened and found the residents protesting. He said he had to leave with his kids out of fear and cops accompanied them home. “I asked a community leader to help me and we went to various departments for help. We then went back to the school to collect forms and the school admitted my children.” Although the siblings were accepted again, they were allegedly victimised by the staff. “They called pastors and traditional healers to pray and cleanse the school. I was so hurt that my children had to go through that to get a basic right. “It was such a traumatic experience for everyone. I am glad the nightmare is finally over and my children are back in class.” The father said he wanted the department to intervene. Professor Matlauli Mdhluli said kids who grow up without stability don’t feel safe and lose control of their senses. He said they become withdrawn and are scared to make mistakes. “Mental health isn’t witchcraft, but a socio-cultural thing that can accumulate if there’s intervention until that child loses control. “We then think that child is crazy or bewitched and the only solution is not in traditional healers but assurance and protection.” Mpumalanga education spokesman Jasper Zwane said he was yet to receive a report.