AMAZULU coach Benni McCarthy maintains that the club and under fire midfielder Siyethemba Sithebe will have to find common ground. After reports emerged that Sithebe had signed a pre-contract with Kaizer Chiefs as his contract with Usuthu is in its last six months, AmaZulu president Sandile Zungu threatened to ban the player for the remainder of the 2021-22 season. “Nothing personal, he will never wear the Usuthu jersey again,” Zungu vowed last week. However, McCarthy said the two parties (club and player) will have to put emotions aside and find a way forward. “The Sithebe issue is with the club,” McCarthy said. “I was away on a break in Scotland with my family when all this happened. I came back and read in the newspapers that he (Sithebe) is never going to put on an AmaZulu shirt again. So yeah, you can also understand it from a club’s point of view.” The Bafana Bafana all-time leading goalscorer continued: “I did have a conversation with the president and the board for us to be on the same page and on the same level because at the end of the day, he is still our player. In these circumstances, we have to put our emotions aside. But I am sure as a club we will find a solution and a way forward. “Whatever we do, we cannot just do it on an emotional ride.” Sithebe was one of the outstanding players for Usuthu when they finished second in the DStv Premiership last season. McCarthy added: “To say I am not playing the player because he is going to be someone else player, I do not think that is how life is supposed to be. “So we want to find the best solution for all parties, for AmaZulu, for the player and his representatives, so that there is an understanding, and we want to give him our blessings when he leaves. “He has been an important player for AmaZulu for many years, so we do not want to end on a sour note.” When asked if he has sat down with the player and spoke to him, McCarthy said: “I have not really had a moment to sit down and pull Sithebe aside. He is a grown man. He knew what he was doing.” AmaZulu will resume their campaign with a Nedbank Cup last-32 fixture against Orlando Pirates at Orlando Stadium on Sunday (3pm).