THE calls for the return of supporters into stadiums seem to be gaining new voices and getting louder by the day. In recent weeks, there’s been a lot of noise regarding fans being allowed back into football match venues in Mzansi. The EFF has added their voice, picketing outside the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture a few weeks ago to get their point across. And Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa has had little choice but to push harder for the capacity limit at stadiums to be adjusted to allow more fans to enter when the time comes. “It is in the best interest of the government if people go back to the stadiums,” Mthethwa has previously said. “As the government, we won’t be able to help and subsidise them if they go out of business. I hope that something will come up in the next (national coronavirus) Command Council meeting. But even as we push for the return of the fans, we are not going to be reckless.” At the moment, stadium capacities are currently limited to 2 000 spectators for outdoor events and 750 for indoor events. The PSL, however, has been reluctant to allow any fans in the stadiums. It’s been nearly two years since any top-flight PSL match in Mzansi had supporters watching at the stadium. But fans were given a chance to watch the inaugural DStv Compact Cup in the past two weeks. The coaches and players who had the privilege to experience this have also added their voices to the calls to allow fans back into the stadium permanently. Dan “Dance” Malesela of Marumo Gallants, said the atmosphere was refreshing and helped the players elevate their game to a higher level. “We really need the supporters,” said Malesela. “At the end of the day, the game of football belongs to the supporters and without them, it’s really not the same. We can play in empty stadiums, but we need the supporters back. They just have a lot to offer the game.” His counterpart, John Maduka of Royal AM, shared the same sentiments. “You could see even with the small numbers that the atmosphere was very different. “Football is not the same without supporters so we hope that they will return to the stadium soon because the game needs them,” said Maduka.