AMAZULU coach Benni McCarthy has confirmed that rising star midfielder Siphesihle Maduna cracked his bone late last year and it is reason why he has been absent in the side. However, the former Cape Town City coach confirmed that the youngster is on his way back to recovery and should be fit to play sometimes in March. According to McCarthy, Maduna got injured against Stellenbosch in November last year in the same area he suffered a foot injury that kept him out for the most part of last season. In that game, Maduna inspired Usuthu, who were 2-0 down, to come back and eventually snatch the point, with on form Keagan Buchanan scoring an equaliser. While Maduna was delighted to score his first goal this season, his excitement came to a shuddering end as he picked up an injury in the process. “Maduna got injured against Stellenbosch and he’s still out, but next week he will start running,” said McCarthy. “It was the same injury that he suffered when he had a broken foot, it just that he cracked his bone and it just opened where it was operated on. “And I also don’t know whether if it’s due to our training pitch, a pitch being rocked hard that’s contributing or maybe the wrong the boots that is also wearing and that is one of the things that the specialists are looking at. “But in our game against Stellenbosch someone stood up on his foot, same part where he had an operation. So he has been side-lined since that game. But in the week’s time, that’s when he would start jogging and he will get back on the pitch.” McCarthy said Maduna’s youthfulness has been missed in the side. “He’s a player that is very well missed, just the youthfulness that he brings in the side and that fearless attitude, personality,” said McCarthy. “He’s not afraid to take players on, bringing that energy. So we have missed that a lot but we are looking forward to have him back.” While Maduna has been absent, McCarthy has opted for a 4-3-3 formation, with either Abraham Majok/ Bongi Ntuli/ Siphelele Mthembu forming a triumvirate with Luvuyo Memela and Augustine Mulenga in attacking area. McCarthy, who gave his players few days off due to taxing schedule after a win over ES Setif in Champions League match on Friday, his side are back in action against Stellies in a DStv Premiership in Durban on Wednesday.