CHRISTIAN Eriksen made an emotional return to football on Saturday, eight months after his cardiac arrest and Premier League players and fans showed their support for beleaguered Ukraine. On the pitch, Manchester United dropped crucial points in a frustrating 0-0 stalemate with Watford while Tottenham hammered Leeds 4-0 to keep their hopes alive of qualifying for next season’s Champions League. Brentford boss Thomas Frank brought on Denmark playmaker Eriksen in the 52nd minute with his side trailing 2-0 at home to Newcastle after goals from Joelinton and Joseph Willock. It was the first appearance in a competitive match for the 30-year-old former Tottenham and Inter Milan playmaker since he collapsed on the pitch during Denmark’s opening Euro 2020 match against Finland in June. Eriksen has been fitted with a implantable cardioverter defibrillator but was unable to continue his career with Italian champions Inter, with ICDs not permitted in Serie A. The midfielder was given a standing ovation by the crowd and both sets of players at the Brentford Community Stadium as he made his entrance. But he was unable to influence the scoreline, with Newcastle’s 2-0 win lifting them above Brentford, who are now just three points above the relegation zone. “If you take away the result, I’m one happy man,” Eriksen told Sky Sports. “To go through what I’ve been through, being back is a wonderful feeling. Thomas (Frank) didn’t say much (when I came on). I’ve been speaking to him daily for the last few weeks. He said ‘good luck and enjoy the game’.” Ukraine teammates Vitalii Mykolenko of Everton and Manchester City’s Oleksandr Zinchenko embraced before the late kick-off at Goodison Park, where both were substitutes. Both teams sported the colours of the Ukraine flag before the match, with Zinchenko in tears as the crowd unveiled banners including one that read “We stand with Ukraine” following Russia’s invasion of the country. Earlier, Manchester United and Watford players stood together with a sign saying “peace” in six languages ahead of their game at Old Trafford. United dropped two points at home to their relegation-threatened visitors despite dominating the game and producing 22 shots on goal. The result leaves them in fourth spot in the Premier League but they are now just two points ahead of Arsenal, who have three games in hand. “We did everything apart from score. In the end, if you miss that many chances, it is difficult to win the game. It’s hard to take that result,” interim manager Ralf Rangnick told the BBC. – AFP