Show off your personality this new year with the freshest hair in town. There is no denying that in 2022 good hair is going to be more than just a wash and wear style. From curls, coils and kinks, it’s time to start turning heads. Revlon Realistic Special Feeling understands that your hair style can you make you feel like a brand-new person, and suggests trying the following 2022 hairstyle trends: Bald Head Coco Chanel famously said, “a woman who cuts her hair is about to change her life. “A haircut can be a fresh start and a way to get rid of whatever baggage we’ve been walking around with. It’s a way to exercise some control when other things seem to be outside of our ability to influence. Therefore, many women cut their hair after a significant change in their life especially at the beginning of the year. It’s an attempt to take charge, to be the one calling the shots for a change. This trend has become famous as seen from the Red Table Talk hosts and our former Miss South Africa, Shudufhadzo Musida.  The High-Top Fade Made popular by celebrities such as former Miss Universe Zozi Tunzi and singer Nandi Madida, the Hi-Top fade is a haircut trend that is growing in popularity as more and more South Africans put aside the wig and embrace their natural hair. The haircut is edgy while easy to maintain, making it the best for your get up and go days. When looking after your hair applying Revlon Realistic Special Feeling Supersoft Activator will moisturise your hair while adding to its bounce, curls and shine, giving you a natural look to your high-top fade.  The Super Lengthy Braids The old-time favourite braid is here to stay, with a bit of a cheeky exaggeration though. In 2022, you might want to try lengthy braids and add your favourite bright-coloured hair extension for a protective hairstyle. Braids offer multiple options in terms of styling for different events and that’s why they have remained the South African women’s best friend.  You can style them for the gym, for a cocktail dinner, for work and absolutely any other commitment or event with ease and still turn heads.  Braids with an undercut Braids with an undercut are a language of their own. A bold statement to be exact. For added glitz, you can use accessories to this style and be Insta-ready. Revlon Realistic Special Feelings encourages new hairstyles, new you and new adventures. Special Feeling Supersoft Activator, now available in 350ml, gives natural hair the moisture it needs to give your new look a healthy shine with a natural bounce. When it comes to choosing your new look, Revlon Realistic Special Feeling advises that you should think of the story you want to tell and choose a hairstyle that can give that story justice it deserves.  