THE sudden death of award-winning rapper Riky Rick, real name Rikhado Makhado, has hit home for many local celebrities. His death was confirmed to the People’s Paper by his family through a statement, also asking for privacy during this difficult period. Many celebrities have since shared their heartfelt tributes to the late star. And, some have asked people to be a little kinder towards them as they were also battling things they could not publicly speak about. Actress and TV presenter Minnie Dlamini, who recently announced her divorce, said she was broken. “Today’s news could have easily been me,” she said. Then Anele Mdoda lashed out at people who were mocking Riky’s wife for being awkward in a video that he had posted, saying: “But carry on guys, carry on like you do.” DJ Tira also took to social media to share that no one cared about them, and that they kept internalising things. ALSO READ |DJ SBU UVUSA ABALELE Award-winning singer and songwriter Makhadzi also sent out a lengthy message, sharing that she never judged anyone who took their own life. “We don’t have people to talk to because most of the people who are our closest friends are the ones who mostly betray us. Instead of helping, they go around bragging about our situations just to prove they know us better. “When it comes to fans, some always want likes and shares by insulting and humiliating us with situations we cannot change. I wish for our fans to know that we are human beings, just like any other,” she wrote in part. Media personality and rapper Boity said when they posted happy and wholesome photos on social media, it did not mean they were entirely happy. “Not everyone shares their dark, difficult days. But they are there. Everyone is battling. Please don’t assume that the bright, curated images are people’s only reality.” Pearl Thusi, who is often bullied, also shared that she had had dark thoughts, too. “When the bullying happens, I for one can say I’ve heard seriously dark thoughts and I’m still not sure how I survived and overcame them. Mainly, it’s knowing that people who say hurtful things are usually in a darker place where no one matters, including themselves.”