MANY people laugh at social media comments poking fun at drivers turning down music to see better. People turn down the music when they’re thinking carefully about their route, not because it helps them to see better but because it helps them to concentrate. This shows how loud music affects your driving. MasterDrive CEO Eugene Herbert said: “International studies found loud music increases the chance of crashing and driving irresponsibly. It can cause distractions that negatively impact reaction times. Loud radios can result in not braking soon enough or not taking evasive action quickly enough. “Listening to loud music while driving is outlawed in certain cities around the world. Nevada in the USA sees listening to loud music as distracted driving. A Canadian study says people listening to loud music take 20% longer to complete mental and physical tasks. “Additionally, the tempo of the music can affect reckless driving, according to a study conducted at Ben-Gurion University. Music with higher tempos cause heart rates to speed up, which affects your speed and concentration levels without even realising it,” said Herbert. Other effects on driving include being twice as likely to skip a red light, while teens are at higher risk and make more driving mistakes when listening to loud music, including speeding and weaving. Loud music also affects your ability to hear and your reaction times to emergency sirens. It creates a very dangerous situation while driving. “Distracted driving in a high-speed situation as a result of this, combined with a delay in reaction times creates a deadly situation. “In South Africa there isn’t a law banning loud music while driving. Does that mean you can jump in your car tonight and turn the sound all the way up? “The answer for drivers committed to using roads safely and reducing road tragedy is no. Safe driving is not solely dependent on what the law says. It depends on each driver identifying dangerous driving situations and changing their behaviour to reduce the risk as much as possible. The next time you reach over to crank up the sound, keep these studies in mind and don’t expose yourself or other road users to unnecessary risk,” said Herbert.