AFRO-SOUL singer Thandiswa Mazwai still can’t believe she’s met two world icons. On Instagram, she explained how in 1990 she met former president Nelson Mandela and the late “King of Pop”, international superstar Michael Jackson. She also explained how she had surreal moments among the two. Her post read: “One of life’s many unbelievable moments. I can’t remember what year this was, maybe late 90s or very early 2000s. We were already a famous kwaito group and word is that Tat’uMandela’s grand kids were asked who they would like to invite to a private family lunch for Tata’s birthday that year and they requested my old group @realbongomaffin and @michaeljackson and that’s how we all ended up in this picture together. “It was a charming lunch where I would say I had the best seating. Tata was at the head and to his left was myself and to my left was MJ. Needless to say I really didn’t notice where anyone else was sitting except that sisZindzi (my fave) sat opposite me. For lunch I remember only I had the most delicious butternut soup ever! And that MJ didn’t eat except to drink a shake. We had interesting conversations and I basically grilled MJ all day. Between myself and the children, he had no chance. ALSO READ : TOP YOUTH CHOIR NEEDS GREAT TEACHER! “They kept dragging him off the table to run around the yard with them as if to say ‘what are you doing at the grown-up table?’ “This picture and video were taken as we were leaving. We had been instructed there would be no pictures but apparently some journalists managed to push past the gate with some negotiations. Historic picture! Interestingly, the song I have laid over is called Kulala and was originally sung by one of my mentors, the now late great MamDorothy Masuku who was also there that day, at the request of Tata himself,” she said. The post accompanied by the historic video made her friends and fans green with envy. Musician and actress Letoya Makhene posted: “Levels mchana.” Comedian Thenjiwe Moseley said: “And you deserve all the glory,” to which Thandiswa responded: “I want to hear what you do to this video.” A post shared by KingTha (@thandiswamazwai) 