MOSCOW, RUSSIA/KYIV, UKRAINE RUSSIA launched an all-out invasion of Ukraine by land, air and sea on Thursday, 24 February – the biggest attack by one state against another in Europe since World War II. Russian missiles rained down on Ukrainian cities. Ukraine reported columns of troops pouring across its borders into the eastern Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Luhansk regions, landing by sea at the cities of Odessa and Mariupol in the south. Explosions could be heard before dawn in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. A resident of Kharkiv, who asked to remain anonymous, said windows in apartment blocks shook from constant blasts. Ukraine’s President Volodymur Zelenskiy said Kremlin leader Vladimir Putin’s aim was to destroy his state.  “Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under attack,” Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter. “Ukraine will defend itself and win. The world can and must stop Putin.” At least eight people were killed and nine wounded by the Russian shelling, an adviser to the Ukrainian minister of internal affairs said. Putin declared in a televised address that he had ordered “a special military operation” to protect people, including Russian citizens who had been subjected to “genocide” in Ukraine, an accusation the West has long described as propaganda. US President Joe Biden said his prayers were with the people of Ukraine “as they suffer an unprovoked and unjustified attack”. He promised tough sanctions. European Union foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell also promised the toughest financial sanctions the bloc had ever imposed. Speaking as the United Nations (UN) Security Council held an emergency meeting in New York, Putin said he had ordered Russian forces to protect the people and appealed to the Ukrainian military to lay down arms.  French President Emmanuel Macron condemned Russia’s action. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres made a last-minute plea to Putin to stop the war “in the name of humanity”. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Putin had chosen “the path of bloodshed and destruction”. – REUTERS