FAGRIE Lakay is looking forward to helping his new Egyptian side Pyramids win the Caf Confederation Cup. The speedy striker is expected to make his debut for Pyramids on 13 February when they host Libyan side Al Ahli SC in their opening group stage match at the 30 June Stadium, Cairo. According to his agent Paul Mitchell, the 24-year-old will be able to hit the ground running as his teammates are also helping him settle in the land of Pharaohs. Lakay’s contract with Pyramids will run until 2024. He made 57 appearances for Cape Town City, scoring 15 goals since he joined them from the now defunct Bidvest Wits in 2019. “Lakay is delighted to join the club. He won’t have a problem to hit the ground running, but it might take him a bit longer to adapt,” said Mitchell. “He is a very good footballer technically, so he will fit in very well in Egypt. He has a great team around him, a very good coach and technical team. “The club has been helpful off the pitch, as well to help him settle. So we don’t see any issues. This is a really good move, and from here he can keep going, and who knows (what he can achieve).” Mitchell said language barrier won’t be an obstacle for Lakay, as they also speak English in Egypt. He went on: “Fagrie will also learn Arabic because that’s what he has always wanted to do. Obviously, he will be playing in the Confederation Cup as well, so he is looking forward to that. “I don’t see any issues than helping the team to win trophies.” Mitchell revealed that negotiations with Pyramids were not easy, as they took almost two weeks to seal the deal. Explained Mitchell: “We have been back and forth for the last 10 days with negotiations. “Obviously, we have discussed the move with Cape Town City FC before Christmas, which they were happy to do. Fagrie’s preference was to move out of South Africa and the Pyramids offer came and it was a very good one for him and club. “After some discussions and dialog, we came to a decision and Pyramids were able to match the transfer fee that was required by Cape Town City.”