IT’s still be the month of love, but there will be no love lost in the square ring when TLB Promotions’ first tournament of the year kicks off on Sunday. The Kagiso Memorial Hall on the West Rand will be transformed into a battleground with a big boxing tournament in town. The tourney, dubbed “No Glove. No Love”, will see some of the best local pugilists go up against some exciting international fighters in what promises to be an epic day of boxing. The main bout will see Mzansi’s Junior Makondo face Jacques Muvud from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) for the vacant WBF middleweight title. Makondo, who hails from Malamulele in Limpopo, will be targeting his first title when he steps up to face Muvud – an opportunity he is eager to grab with both hands. The 26-year-old is relatively new on the scene and boasts a record of seven wins and five defeats in his 12 fights. His opponent, Muvud, has only tasted defeat once in his eight fights and will be hoping to upset Makondo in his own backyard. TLB boss, Joyce Kungwane, who has quickly made a name for herself in the boxing promotion scene, thanks to her impressive work ethic, has predicted a mouth-watering tournament. “I think fans will get their money’s worth because we have a spectacular tournament lined up for them. We are excited to have fans in the venue and I think this will bring a different vibe,” said Kungwane. “It’s the first tournament of the year and we want to start with a bang.” In the main supporting bout, the tough-as-nails Khaya Busakwe will make his first defence of the Gauteng lightweight title when he faces Talent Baloyi. Busakwe, who lost to Tshifhiwa “Spider” Munyai last time out in an SA lightweight title match, is determined to get back to winning ways by brushing aside the tough talking Baloyi. “I’m ready. Come the day of the fight, he will see how ready I am,” said Busakwe. “He will have to back his words up with action in the ring. That’s the only place I like to do my talking.” Baloyi, who is undefeated in his four fights so far, believes it is his time to shine and is eager to bulldoze his way past Busakwe. “It’s time for the dog to eat,” he said. “I am grateful for the opportunity but I’m sure he is going to regret stepping into the ring with me.” The other four bouts will see Kholosa Ndobayini take on Cecilia Pitisani in an international female lightweight battle. Youssof Mwanza from the DRC will face off against Alick Gogodo from Malawi in a cruiserweight fight while Cryden Truter faces Rirothe Radima.