In brought daylight police exchanged fire with armed-to-the-teeth thugs that they have been keeping tabs on for several weeks. After the police cornered the thugs who were hiding in one of the safe houses, they opened fire at the police helicopter that was hovering just above the roofs. A helicopter pilot and his assistant were shot and injured before they could land the chopper. A total of eight suspects were shot and killed, another eight were arrested from the group of about 25 of them. These men are suspected of being behind some of the violent crimes in Gauteng including cash-in-transit heists.  According to police, they were planning to hit another cash truck on Monday 21 Feb four police officers in total were injured and taken to hospital. Police Minister Bheki Cele joined the Gauteng Police Commissioner Lieutenant General Elias Mawela at the scene, where cartridges were scattered all over the streets. Cele said he was not happy but satisfied with the job that the police have done in the area.He said the suspects are from Zim and KZN and there is one from Botswana. “They are well-armed, they all have AK47 rifles with double magazines. He added, “The surprising one is the one that shot the helicopter and injured the pilot and his assistant, we are working with heartless people who are prepared to kill. “I asked one of them who is from Ngcuthu (KZN) what is happening, he said, “yi ndlala” (hunger), there is no hunger that will make you carry AK47 and make you kill people. "Police have also discovered four high-performance vehicle’s cars inside the yard, which all were positively identified as stolen".  Cele said he hopes no one was killed when those vehicles were high jacked or stolen. One of the witnesses, who lives near the house where the thugs were hiding, told Daily Sun that they feared for their lives when the shooting started. “My son was outside, he told me that there was a police helicopter outside. “I told him that when the police chopper is hovering around it cannot be a good thing. "Suddenly there was a change of gunfire between suspects and the police. We had to run into their house and lie down until the gunfire stopped, she said. 