KAIZER Chiefs striker Leonardo Castro has promised to remind the Amakhosi faithful of what he is capable of in a bid to help his side end a six-year trophy drought. The 32-year-old Colombian centre forward has fully recovered from niggling injuries. He struggled to make an impact this season as he has spent the better part of the campaign in the treatment room. Castro has only made three appearances this season, all of which came in the DStv Premiership and he is yet to find the back of the net. The former Mamelodi Sundowns striker has spent seven seasons in Mzansi where he scored 15 goals in all competitions in the 2015-16 campaign. Castro joined Chiefs in the 2018-19 campaign, he’s gone on to score 29 goals and provide nine assists in 113 appearances, endearing himself to the clubs’ fans. His numbers have been steadily declining in recent years, but Castro is determined to regain his best form and remind fans what he is all about. “Hopefully, I can celebrate again,” Castro said. He will get a chance to do just that when Chiefs face bogey side TS Galaxy in the Nedbank Cup last-32 at the FNB Stadium on Saturday (6pm). “And I also want to show the supporters and everyone that I still have the desire to play and win more games and trophies for Kaizer Chiefs going forward.” Castro along with his teammates will be determined to dump the Rockets out of the Ke Yona Cup and avenge their embarrassing defeat to the same opponents in the 2019 final at Moses Mabhida Stadium. “The Nedbank Cup is important for us. We take each and every tournament seriously,” added Castro. They (Galaxy) have a really good team. And we know that every team in the PSL play the game of their lives when they face Kaizer Chiefs, but we have to remain who we are at the end.” Galaxy trio Sihle Nduli, Tshegofatso Nyama and Bathusi Aubaas have put their 2019 performances behind them when they stunned Chiefs 1-0 to win the cup as they prepare to face Amakhosi again. The Rockets became the first club from the GladAfrica Championship to win the trophy. The trio are the only remaining players at Galaxy who were part of the team that won the cup three years ago at the Moses Mabhida Stadium. “We are aware a lot of people were reminded of the 2019 final when we were drawn against Chiefs. But we have to be honest and realistic, a lot has changed since then,” Aubaas said yesterday