A FURIOUS family is threatening legal action against a funeral parlour. They claimed Okwethu Funeral and Tombstone Services gave them bad service. This was after they found the body of their loved one decomposed at the mortuary. Family spokeswoman Loretta Visagie (58) from Katlehong, Ekurhuleni, told Daily Sun her grandson Njabulo Lushaba (27) died at home on 25 January after a long illness. Loretta said when they arrived at the parlour on Monday, 31 January, to prepare the body to be taken to Mpumalanga for the funeral, they made a terrible discovery.  They claimed one worker offered to wash the body but he had five litres of petrol. Another employee asked the man who was taking the body to Mpumalanga to take it away and not open it up for the family to see. “This is when I knew that something was wrong. I told them we would wash our son ourselves. I went to where the body was. They didn’t even want me to open him up.” She said she demanded gloves to open the plastic. “I got the shock of my life. My grandson’s body had decomposed.” Loretta said they wanted to speak to the owner and find out what happened, but she didn’t bother talking to them. “Instead, her ex-husband came and apologised on her behalf. We were told she was busy,” she said. She said Njabulo will he buried on Saturday, 5 February, in Mbombela. “We’re planning to sue her. We’ve suffered a great loss and the fact that we’ll be burying him in that state is terrible,” said Loretta. Owner Modiehi Matseke told Daily Sun she was betrayed by the man she bought a motor from. “When I bought these fridges I also wanted a new motor. Someone recommended this man but a few weeks later, the fridges were not cold. I called a mechanic who told me that the motor was old,” she said. She said she then asked that man to bring a new one but claimed he then fixed the very same one and brought it back. “I understand why the family is angry, which is why I refunded their R6 100. I feel bad and apologise again to the family for the pain I’ve caused. I haven’t been able to sleep because of this. I’ve been working in this industry since 2000 and I’ve never had such a problem. I’m really sorry,” said Modiehi. Johan Rousseau, founder of Funeral Industry Reformed Association (Fira), said it was reckless of the owner not to monitor the fridges. “This is irresponsible. The family can contact Fira and we’ll help them from the legal point of view.”