ACTING Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has told the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) that his acting stint does not entitle him to be automatically appointed chief justice. He said, like any other candidate, he was in the hands of the president. “I do not come here thinking I’m entitled to any position. The president has the prerogative to appoint who he decides to. It is not my attitude that because I’m deputy chief justice and acting, then I’m automatically entitled to be appointed chief justice,” said Zondo. He further said those positions did not make him think he was any better than other candidates. Zondo is the fourth and last candidate being interviewed for the chief justice position. He told the JSC on Friday, 4 February, that if he was appointed, he would want to try and complete the institutional independence model for the administration of the courts. “I hope the current president and minister of Justice would be amenable to go back to the proposal made by the judiciary,” he said. He added that he would not be wanting to start everything all over again because there were measures that had been put in place that enjoyed support from the heads of courts, and he supported them. Zondo said he was proud to have been part of a team that drafted the country’s post apartheid labour relations act. He said he was invited by former minister Tito Mboweni to be in the task team. Before he became the Constitutional Court justice, Zondo was the judge president of Labour Appeal Court from 2000 to 2010. “Many of the judgments I have written stood the test of time,” he said, adding one of the most important ones was that of workers who went on an illegal strike and were dismissed. He said he studied many judgments and academic articles to see if they were entitled to be heard before they could be dismissed. “I came to the conclusion that the correct position was that workers being involved in an illegal strike is not something that disentitled them the basic right to be heard before they could be dismissed. That judgment remains the law,” said Zondo. The interview continues.