BAROKA management will have a heart-to-heart discussion with their players following their embarrassing DStv Premiership derby defeat against Sekhukhune United at the weekend. Club official Richard Mashabane told SunSport yesterday they were set for what would appear as crisis talks with the players individually to address problems that have engulfed the club. Mashabane accused the players of undermining the badge and branded their performance as unacceptable. The Limpopo-based side were hammered 4-0 in the Limpopo derby by Sekhukhune at the Ellis Park Stadium on Sunday. It was Bakgaga’s heaviest defeat since 2017. They will host Kaizer Chiefs at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in a match they cannot afford to lose on Saturday at (7.30pm). Losing the game against Chiefs is not an option and management demands a win, according to Mashabane. “The players did not respect the badge of the club,” a furious Mashabane said. “They did not understand they were playing in a derby. They showed the opposition too much respect. The players failed the coach, chairman, management, supporters and themselves down.” Mashabane said they learned a big lesson and would treat their remaining 11 games in the Premiership like cup finals. “No disrespect to Sekhukhune, but you expect to lose like this against Mamelodi Sundowns. “We hope Sekhukhune will do us a favour and beat Swallows on Saturday. We do not want to rely on others teams, but need them to win against Swallows. The good thing is that we still have to play Swallows, TS Galaxy, Chippa United and Marumo Gallants are the nearest rivals in the relegation fight. “Chiefs are a good team, but we expect the players to redeem themselves. “What we ask for is that the players must respect the badge of the club.” Coach Kgoloko Thobejane was at a loss for words after the big defeat. Said Thobejane: “Even if you gave us another 90 minutes, it shows my boys were not in the game. All the goals were from our transition. “At halftime, I told them the opposition are quick and outnumbered us each time.”