BY end of June, Mzansi will know what action will be taken against those who have been implicated in the State Capture report. Delivering his State of the National Address, President Cyril Ramaphosa said while the definitive conclusion has yet to be delivered at the end of this month, the first two parts of the report make it plain that there was indeed ‘state capture’. "By no later than 30 June, I will present a plan of action in response to the Commission’s recommendations. We must now do everything in our power to ensure that it never happens again," he said. Ramaphosa vowed that he would carry out his responsibility to ensure that the Commission report was properly and carefully considered and then acted upon. "State capture had a direct and very concrete negative impact on the lives of all South Africans, but especially the poorest and most vulnerable members of our society. It has weakened the ability of the state to deliver services and to meet the expectations and constitutional rights of people. "The reports have detailed the devastating effects of this criminal activity on SAA, Transnet, Denel, South African Revenue Service and Government Communications. This means that public institutions and state-owned enterprises were infiltrated by a criminal network intent on looting public money for private gain," he said. Many individuals and companies that were found responsible for state capture must now be held to account. He promised that the fight against corruption will take on a new intensity, owing to the outcomes of the State Capture Commission and this will strengthen law enforcement agencies and the implementation of new anti-corruption practices in the public service, he said. Ramaphosa said the Special Investigative Unit in December submitted its final report on its investigation into COVID-related contracts. As a result, 45 matters, with a combined value of R2.1 billion, have been enrolled with the Special Tribunal. Further, the unit has referred 224 government officials for disciplinary action and referred 386 cases for possible prosecution to the NPA. The Investigating Directorate in the NPA has been tasked to further probe these cases. "Even as the country was suffering the devastation of the COVID-19 pandemic, companies and individuals were conspiring with public officials to defraud the government of billions of rands in COVID-related contracts. "As soon as evidence emerged of this corruption we acted. We withdrew certain emergency procurement regulations, set up a fusion centre that brought together various law enforcement agencies, published the details of all COVID-related contracts online and instituted the most extensive investigation that the Special Investigating Unit has undertaken since its formation," he said. Ramaphosa said as recommended by the state capture report, the government will strengthen the system to protect whistle-blowers, who were vital in the fight against corruption and took a huge personal risk in reporting wrongdoing. On the Expert Panel report of the July unrest, Ramaphosa said the government has to take responsibility and accept the findings of the panel that the Cabinet failed the people. "The report concludes government’s initial handling of the July 2021 events was inept, police operational planning was poor, poor coordination between the state security & intelligence services, and police not always embedded in the communities they serve. "The report paints a deeply disturbing picture of the capabilities of our security services and the structures that exist to coordinate their work. We will, as recommended by the panel, develop and drive a national response plan to address the weaknesses that the panel has identified," he said.