RICHARDS Bay coach Pitso Dladla says he is caught in the middle of a predicament of throwing all his eggs in the basket, but he’s afraid that might derail them in the GladAfrica Championship. The PSL cup cards rule of applying them to the league has pumped in pressure on his side as they have a number of yellow cards, which puts him in between a rock and a hard place whether to field his first team squad for the Nedbank Cup or a diluted side. If he had it his way, Dladla would advise PSL to scrap the rule as it makes it hard for teams like his to field their strongest squads in cup games, as it risks them losing key players for league matches. He said he’s tempted to use his full squad against Mamelodi Sundowns in the Ke Yona Cup last-32 clash at Princess Magogo Stadium on Friday evening (6pm), but he may be forced to leave out Lwandile Mabuya. The Richards Bay midfielder has accumulated three yellow cards and if he is cautioned against Downs, he will miss the vital top-of-the-table GladAfrica Championship clash against JDR Stars on 19 February. The KwaZulu-Natal club, who are fighting for promotion, sit joint-top of the Championship log on 32 points after 17 matches with JDR Stars. After playing Downs, Bay face JDR in the first league match of 2022 when they resume their chase for the Championship title on 19 February. “There are cards you accumulate in the Nedbank Cup and these cards end up disturbing you in the league,” said Dladla. “And we are playing against teams (in the Championship) who are not participating in the Nedbank Cup, as some teams did not progress to the round of the 32. I wish and pray one day the league will look at this differently, that cards accumulated in the Nedbank Cup must be utilised only in the Cup and not in the league. “This sometimes sees us as coaches hold (back) our best players because what if my player gets a card (while on three in the cup) and then he can’t play a league match.” However, concerns aside, Dladla is happy that he’s facing Sundowns side after a long break. The former Uthongathi FC coach predicted that the 2020 Nedbank Cup champions will not be at their best, as they would have not regained their momentum due to the long break that started before Christmas. “That’s my hope that after this long break we are the first team to play against them. That can help us,” added a hopeful Dladla.