ANGRY residents in Mothutlung in North West burned the alleged killer of two young cousins. The 31-year-old suspect, who was the kids’ uncle, was burnt to death after being accused for being behind the kids disappearance. According to information, the two kids, aged six and four, went missing on Wednesday, 16 February and were found dead in a nearby bush the following day. Their throats were slit. Residents reportedly traced the alleged uncle and questioned him about the kids’ whereabouts and he pointed out where their bodies were hidden in the bush. After the kids’ bodies were found, residents assaulted the uncle and burnt him to death. According to a resident, who wanted to remain anonymous, the man also deserved to die. “The man took the children and promised them food while his intention was to kill them in the bushes. The angry community was not remorseful and wanted to see him dead,” he said. Another resident said: “These children didn’t deserve to die. We do not know what angered him or triggered him to do such.” The residents said people must know that their area is not a playing ground for criminals. North West police spokeswoman Colonel Adéle Myburgh said police were investigating the murders of cousins and their uncle. “The 31-year-old uncle collected the two children from their home in Extension 1 in Mothotlung at about 6pm on Wednesday to buy them food,” she said. Myburgh said when the children did not return home, their mothers became worried and a missing person’s report was opened on Thursday, 17 February, which led to an immediate search by the police and members of the community. “The uncle was successfully traced by community members, who without informing the police, allegedly interrogated and assaulted him. “As a result, he pointed out the children’s bodies, which were found in the bushes behind a church between Extension 1 and 2,” she said. She also said that members of the community took the law into their own hands by allegedly killing and setting alight the uncle. “Investigation into the matter continue and the area is currently calm,” said Myburgh.