TRADITIONAL leaders have had enough promises and want the government to walk the talk. This was a message for deputy president David Mabuza after his address to open the House of Traditional and Khoi-San Leaders in Parliament on Thursday, 24 February. Chairwoman of the house, Nkosikazi Mhlauli, the first woman to hold that position in history, reminded Mabuza that it was time for government plans to translate into action. She pointed to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s undertaking in his State of the Nation Address to finalise a social compact to grow the economy, create jobs and combat hunger. Mhlauli said she remembered that such a discussion was held by traditional leaders and the Department of Agriculture about two years ago. She said if the plan had been implemented, the country would have made inroads, but those discussions remained just that. “We just keep talking and talking. Let’s now walk the talk; let’s move together because we have many documents and legislation, but we don’t implement,” said Mhlauli. Mabuza conceded that government had been dragging its feet in resolving some of the matters raised by traditional and Khoi-San leaders. He emphasised that its commitment to resolving them was unwavering and to that end, the president had established an inter-ministerial task team to focus on these issues. On top of these issues was the redistribution of land into the custodianship of traditional leaders. “As we have already acknowledged, some of the issues have taken long to resolve. However, we are confident that the process we have chosen will bear fruits. That is why we appeal to all sections of this institution to afford the unfolding process space and opportunity to work on the issues at hand,” he said. Mabuza added that the role of traditional leaders should never be limited only to ceremonial and cultural responsibilities, but be seen in the broader context of daily struggles of ordinary people. These included access to economic opportunities, improved infrastructure for service delivery as well as quality health and education outcomes. Regarding land, Mabuza said this was a critical asset for rural development, and economic transformation would be prioritised to ensure that land, under the custodianship of traditional leaders, was productively used to develop communities. He said as part of the land reform programme, government would continue to provide integrated agricultural production support packages to ensure that available communal land was used productively to feed the poor.