FAMILY and friends of DJ and producer Citi Lyts say he died in what they believe was an execution. The 32-year-old, whose real name was Sandile Mkhize, was shot eight times during a botched attempted hijacking in Dube, Soweto on Monday, 14 February. The DJ became popular in 2015 with his single Washa, when he joined record label Ambitiouz Entertainment. He has worked with musicians Fifi Cooper, Sjava, B3nchmarq, Lasauce and Emtee. His brother, hip-hop star Prokid died in 2018 after he suffered a severe seizure. Citi Lyts dedicated Cel’Ukuthi to him. The DJ’s death has left his family and Mzansi’s hip-hop fraternity heartbroken. A family friend confirmed Citi Lyts’ death to Daily Sun. “But details about his death are still sketchy,” said the friend. ALSO READ : WATCH: KING MONADA GETS ENGAGED! Another friend said Citi Lyts was ambushed by four men in the street. His father Zwelakhe Kheswa also confirmed to Daily Sun that he was shot. “He was executed. I don’t have any information about it now. We don’t have any information and don’t want to make a mess with speculations. We’ll only have all the information tomorrow,” he said. Tributes have been pouring in on social media for City Lyts. Singer Donald said he was hurt by his death. “RIP Citi Lyts, one of the reallest brothers I ever met. This one hurts really deep. Till we meet again my G,” he said. Ambitiouz Entertainment also sent out a message: “Rest in peace DJ Citi Lyts. Thank you for hits like #Vura #Washa #Malambane and #Shishiliza. Our deepest condolences to the Mkhize family.” Rapper Touchline, who worked with him, tweeted: “Farewell my brother. Thank you for believing in me.” Music organisation Samro sent out condolences to the family. Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said police opened a case of murder and were looking for the suspects. “Gauteng police launched a manhunt for suspects after a musician was killed in Soweto on Monday. Police were called and found a man (32) lying on the ground with gunshot wounds on the upper body. He was certified dead by the paramedics. “The motive for the killing is unknown. Police appeal for information that can help in the investigation,” he said.