GAUTENG Social Development has honoured top matriculated foster care beneficiaries. The event, that hosted 120 beneficiaries from five Gauteng regions, was held on Friday, 11 February, at the Capital Hotel in Sandton. Mandisa Skosana (17), one beneficiary from The House Girls Group in Protea, Soweto, said to Daily Sun that her hard work had paid off. She studied at Sir Pierre Van Ryneveld High School and acquired a bachelors pass with two distinctions in LO and business studies. “I studied hard because I wanted to go to university to make sure I have a better future. I thank God that through all my struggles, He helped me pull through,” she said. Mandisa added that she had been accepted at the University of Free State to study towards a Bachelor of Education degree. “Education is my passion because I like to give and share knowledge with young people. My challenge is getting funding. I asked social workers to intervene because NSFAS rejected me, but I won’t let anything stop me from making my dreams a reality,” she said. Kgothatso Mashala (18) from Mabopane said he was enrolled at DR AT Moreosele Secondary School. He passed with a Bachelor and two distinctions in maths literacy and tourism. “I’ve always wanted to study law, and my dream has come true. I have been accepted at the University of the Witwatersrand and will be moving to Joburg. Growing up, I used to watch law documentaries and knew that was what I wanted to become,” he said. Kgothatso said he was fostered by his grandmother after his mother died. “My grandmother is the best and I will miss her. I know she is stressed because she doesn’t like Joburg and its fast pace, but I promised not to disappoint her,” he said. One of the top achievers, 18-year-old Lehlogonolo Nhlapo, who got six distinctions, said his triple R philosophy got him through. “Throughout the year I reminded myself of the goal, and created a daily routine that got me the results.” The department’s manager for foster care programmes Keba Ntwampe said the government was excited to honour top achievers. “The outstanding performance of these learners encourage government to do more. We will continue to give them the necessary support. Our social workers have linked some with bursary opportunities while others are assisted with NSFAS application. We will also continue monitoring their performance and progress.”