SHE PUT korobela on her punani to stop her man from poking other women. But while the muthi has made him stay at home, it has had some side effects she wasn’t expecting. HER MAN’S DESIRE FOR TLOF TLOF DAY AND NIGHT IS WEARING HER OUT! The woman (45) from Wattville, Ekurhuleni said they’ve been married for 14 years and she’s never seen this side of her husband. She said two weeks after applying the korobela, her husband turned into a sex addict. She said last year in October she found out that her husband was cheating on her and a friend recommended a sangoma from Kempton Park. “I took my friend’s advice. I didn’t want to lose my husband of 14 years,” she told Daily Sun. She said in November, she went to the sangoma who gave her muthi to rub on her punani every day at the same time. She was told not to have sex with her husband for two weeks. “We really didn’t poke that often so that wasn’t a problem,” she said. ALSO READ | WATCH:
ANDILE MPISANE FLEXES CARS WORTH R21M! She said after two weeks, she initiated sex and it was like pulling the trigger on a sex gun. Her husband hasn’t stopped poking her ever since. “This isn’t what I wanted. It’s too much. Our pokes went from once or twice a week to three or four times a day,” she said. She said hubby was also wondering where all the sex drive came from. “He definitely doesn’t have the energy to cheat anymore because he’s too tired from poking me all the time.” On 26 January she went back to that sangoma, but the traditional healer had moved. “I’m tired of living like this. And when I say no, he gets angry and stops talking to me,” she said. ALSO READ |
BABY DADDY SHOWS NO GUILT! Sangoma Joseph Dungamanzi said korobela comes in many forms and it’s not always given to the man through food. “It can be used the way she’s using it. That way the man doesn’t get sick. It just makes him focus only on the wife and increases the sex drive.” He said these kind of korobelas were usually good for a year, so there was nothing she could do. “All she can do is wait for it to wear off.” 