KAIZER Chiefs leapfrogged Orlando Pirates to second spot on the DStv Premiership log after a last-gasp 1-0 away win over Baroka FC at the Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday night. Amakhosi looked set to be frustrated by a resilient Bakgaga ba Mphahlele, but Khama Billiat struck deep in injury time at the end of the game to see the Soweto side pinch second spot from rivals Orlando Pirates ahead of the teams’ big derby next weekend. The Limpopo hosts, meanwhile, remain bottom of the log and three points off the safety of 14th place. Chiefs had the first effort in anger, with Keagan Dolly firing a shot from the edge of the box which forced Oscarine Masuluke into a sharp save at his left-hand post on three minutes, while a short while later Evidence Makgopa saw his low effort from a tight angle turned away by Brandon Petersen. The Soweto side went on to create several more decent chances in the opening half hour, the best of which went the way of Reeve Frosler – arriving late in the box to meet Njabulo Blom’s deep cross from the right – but Masuluke did well to make a block with his body. The defences on both sides tightened up in what remained of the first half, leaving the scoreline blank when the interval arrived. The second half opened with Chiefs keeping up their search for a goal, as Dolly was again denied from long range by Masuluke, before Bakgaga opted for the first change by introducing Thamsanqa Masiya off the bench. The hosts were inches away from claiming the lead on 64 minutes, as a free kick delivery from Sekela Sithole allowed Makgopa a diving header, but his effort rebounded off the upright and away to safety. Baroka threatened again on 70 minutes when Basil Mphahlele whipped in a cross from the right to find the head of Richard Mbulu, but the substitute put his attempt wide of the target. Chiefs ended the game the stronger of the two teams, looking more likely to snatch a late winner, but they appeared to blow their best chance in injury time when a direct ball from Petersen and a clever chest into Dolly’s path split open the hosts’ defence, but the Amakhosi number 10 saw his low shot saved by the legs of Masuluke. However, the visitors didn’t give up and were rewarded four minutes into added time when substitute Sabelo Radebe’s low cross from the right was not cut out by the Baroka defence and Billiat arrived late at the back post to fire home the winning goal. Baroka will be back in DStv Premiership action on Wednesday, 2 March when they face Marumo Gallants in an away match, while Chiefs’ next league fixture is the Soweto derby against Orlando Pirates on Saturday, 5 March. -SuperSport.com