THE dictionary definition of the word, thief, is person who steals, especially secretly or without open force – one guilty of theft or larceny. I’m tempted to take this definition even further, to include a non-human and or abstract object that has suddenly taken control of our entire human existence. In today’s world of instant gratification and attempting to outdo one another through likes and virtual followers, we’ve allowed an external force to stealthily encroach on our privacy and personal spaces – be it at work or private lives. Don’t get me wrong, I fully agree with the new brainwave that we’re living in a world of interconnectivity. But consciously or subconsciously, we’ve somewhat let our guard down and allowed this scoundrel to creep in, pilfer, ransack and rob us of our precious commodity: time. Social media has come, annexed and now rules the roost. This thief of our time is canny, manipulative and ubiquitous. We have close encounters with it at our jobs, where it wreaks havoc during our hours of work, resulting in some social users underperforming. In some instances, it has caused major distractions in some companies’ bottom line. This might sound trivial, but the truth is that screentime has also resulted in some companies laying off staff – and even shutting down. And yet we keep giving this thief carte blanche and the wherewithal to grab us by the scruff of our necks and let it constantly bully us. It’s one thing to khokh’umoya a bit amidst a hectic work assignment and meeting pressing deadlines, and another spending almost half of your work hours watching hilarious video clips, responding to your gazillion social media friends and taking selfies to post on your Instagram page. This often results in a lack of concentration, poor communication, poor goal-setting and a lack of objective-setting. Screentime has caused a helluva disruption even in our private lives. There’s no more “me time” with our significant others, children, family members, and to a greater and less extent, friends and associates. Everyone seems to be engulfed or overwhelmed by the fear of being left out. We all want to be in the moment and part of the in-crowd. But at what cost? We’re in this constant rush to respond to a tweet, be engaged in some triviality and even throw in some black Twitter vitriol and disgusting racial slurs in the works – just to be seen to be “relevant”. If we switched off for a couple of days, it’d make a remarkable difference. Withdrawal from Insta, Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp or emails would change your personal and social life for the better. Go ahead, be my guest. Read a good book, take a walk around the block, share candle-lit moments and belovey-dovey with your significant other, especially during the Month of Love. You can even play Trivial Pursuit with the kids. Time is too precious to be messed around with like this on social media. Woe unto us, if we allow the social time thief to steal from our daily existence. As things stand, we’re on a slippery slope toward a life total annihilation. The end results thereof are too much to bare. We’ll be left with less time, or no time at all, to spend on what we love most, our families, friends and hobbies. To borrow from ama-2000, that’s “not dope”!