A MAN (25) who is arrested for stabbing dead the mum of his two-year-old girl will appear in the Mkhuhlu Magistrates Court on Monday, 14 February, facing a charge of murder. His arrest came after pupils of Chayaza High School in Calcutta outside Mkhuhlu near Hazyview, Mpumalanga, made a gruesome discovery of a bloodied lifeless body of a woman in the nearby bushes on Friday, 11 February, at about 6.40am, and alerted the police. The pupils were on their way to school when they bumped into the body. “We were rushing to school via a short cut when we spotted the body. It was a woman lying in a pool of blood. So we quickly notified the police on patrol,” said one of the traumatised pupils. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala confirmed that a 25-year-old man, who is believed be the father of the murdered woman’s child, has since been arrested by the Calcutta police in connection with the murder of the 20-year-old woman. “The clothes that the woman wore were covered in blood. The medical personnel arrived at the scene where she was unfortunately certified dead. A murder case was then opened. Police went further with their investigation where a manhunt was launched for the suspect. The probe led members to the father of the woman’s daughter,” he said. Mohlala said the man was then arrested. “Police also found some clothes with blood stains at the place where they arrested the suspect. The investigators also seized an item, which they are convinced might be the weapon that was used in the murder. All confiscated items will form part of the investigation,” said Mohlala. Mpumalanga police commissioner Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Manamela has strongly condemned the horrific incident. She further welcomed the arrest of the suspect. She also raised her concerns regarding the rate at which women are reportedly murdered or abused by their partners in the province even during a month in which people are supposed to show affection to one another. “It is very sad when mothers are brutally murdered, leaving behind their little ones. This is enough and it must immediately come to an end. We hope that justice will be served in this case,” said Manamela.