THE Inaugural Auto & General Cross Triathlon powered by HOT 102.7FM impressed at Steyn City on Saturday as Shaun Wolfaardt (T:01:49:04) and Hannah Newman (T: 02:06:48) made history on their way to winning the overall men and women’s categories. The event, taking place for the first time, was a rousing success as it drew participants from all walks of life for a fun filled day competing at the world-class facilities at Steyn City. The triathlon began with a two-lap swim in the recently launched 300m lagoon (a total of 600m), followed by a 35km ride along the parkland’s MTB track, and finally, participants ran 7km along Steyn City’s floodlit boulevard.  “We are so very proud of the winners – and, of course, all those who participated in this, very exciting first event,” said Ricardo Coetzee, Head of Auto & General Insurance. “We were counting down the days until we could prove what experience looks like with our proud partner Steyn City and we certainly didn’t disappoint. ”Steyn City’s beautiful setting was the ideal location for athletes to test their mettle, because of the facilities offered by the parkland residence, including a mountain bike track that has been used for several cycling events; the clear crystalline waters of its 300m lagoon; and the 45km floodlit promenade that traverses all areas of the parkland. “We believe that there are few other residential developments in South Africa with the infrastructure to host an event of this scale in a secure setting,” said Giuseppe Plumari, CEO of Steyn City Properties. “The magnificent 2 000-acre parkland which forms Steyn City’s backdrop certainly contributed to the event’s atmosphere, with the music vibes of HOT 102.7FM adding a decidedly festive note.” The host venue no doubt helped to attract some of South Africa’s best-known triathletes, including Hannah Newman, Nico Sterk, Armand du Toit, Shaun Wolfaardt and Adriaan Myburgh.Seven-time XTERRA World Champion Conrad Stoltz and Emma Pallant, two-time world duathlon champion, also took part in the event that was carefully timed to take place in February ahead of the Iron Man African Championships. This afforded contestants an opportunity to gain some training exercise ahead of the Iron Man African Championships scheduled to take place in April in Port Elizabeth. Prizes for the winners included R10 000 for both the men and women who placed first, with second place winners taking home R6 000 each and R2 500 awarded to third place holders. The event was greatly enjoyed by those who took part. “It was an incredible day for the cross-triathlon community, I had so much fun and look forward to being back here at Steyn City this time next year,” said Conrad Stoltz. “We thank all who took part for making this an extremely successful event. We’re already looking forward to next year’s edition,” added Ricardo Coetzee. 