BANYANA Banyana midfielder Linda Motlhalo has every reason to help the national team qualify for the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (Awcon). Motlhalo was part of the squad that failed to qualify for the 2020 Olympic Games in 2019. They were eliminated by lowly-ranked Botswana in what came as a shock exit. However, with that being a thing of the past, Banyana will leave no stone unturned to ensure they book their spot in the Awcon finals scheduled to take place in Morocco from 2-23 July. But first, Banyana will need to get past Algeria in a two-legged qualifier, with the first match scheduled for tomorrow at Orlando Stadium (3pm). The second leg will be played on 23 February in Algiers, Algeria. Motlhalo said they know what is at stake and she urged players to be at the coalface of the qualification battle. “We know how important it is for us to win this game against Algeria,” said Motlhalo, who arrived in camp on Sunday from Sweden. “It is a must-win for us, which will ease the pressure when we head to Algeria for the second leg. “No player goes into the field to lose, and no player has a negative mentality. We want to be there (in Morocco). We want to fight and we know it’s not going to be easy.” Failure to beat Algeria in the two-legged fixture will mean Banyana will miss out on two big competitions as Awcon serves as the 2023 Fifa Women’s World Cup qualifier. If Banyana qualify for the Awcon finals in Morocco, Banyana will need to finish in the top four to qualify for the 2023 World Cup, which will be jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand. This past Saturday, Banyana lost 3-0 to Zambia. In that match, coach Desiree Ellis had called up only local based players. Ellis has now strengthened the team with eight overseas-based players, Lebohang Ramalepe (Dinamo Minsk, Belarus), Refiloe Jane (AC Milan, Italy), Motlhalo (Djurgardens, Sweden), Noko Matlou (SD Eibar, Spain), Nomvula Kgoale (Parquesol CD, Italy), Kholosa Biyana (Sporting de Gijon, Spain), Hilda Magaia (Moron BK, Sweden) and Thembi Kgatlana (Atletico Madrid, Spain). All the players have reported in camp except for Matlou who is expected to arrive today.