MPHO BOTHA dropped out of university because his mother simply couldn’t pay for his studies. But that may have been a blessing in disguise. At the age of 21, Mpho has found his pot of gold! Mpho was first introduced to business when he started his own events company. However, he soon went on to selling luxury homes and today he is one of Mzansi’s youngest millionaires. He told Daily Sun he grew up watching shows such as Million Dollar Listing New York and has always had a dream of selling luxury real estate. “I struggled to get my first listing while doing my internship and I worked hard at learning everything there is to know about the business as fast as I could,” he said. “But this was my passion and I soon started using social media to reach out to people and soon I got my first listing.” A post shared by Mpho Botha (@mphobotha_)  One of the luxury homes he has sold was to Marnus Broodryk, one of the investors on Shark Tank South Africa. Mpho who was born in Welkom in the Free State told the People’s Paper he always knew that one day he’d be a success but he didn’t think it would happen so soon. “Operating in the area that I’m in, it is easy to become a millionaire. The commission is high and the first listing I sold made me a R1 million,” he said. He said his family is super proud of him. “They are grateful I have found my calling and made a name for myself, especially my mum who watched me struggle as a young entrepreneur. She didn’t want me to drop out of varsity but there was simply no other way because we couldn’t afford it.” Most of the houses Mpho sells are listed online and he believes in the power of social media. He said people should use the tool to grow and uplift themselves. A post shared by Mpho Botha (@mphobotha_)  Besides the real estate business, Mpho, who participated in pageants years back and won the Mr Teen world in 2015, owns the beauty pageant Miss United Nations Africa. “That organisation came about when I started getting many questions from people wanting to enter pageants. I said to myself why not start my own organisation and show people the ropes. It has been a beautiful journey ever since,” he said He said juggling both his daily job and the organisation is not easy and he has since taken a step back and appointed a director and a CEO for the organisation. A post shared by Mpho Botha (@mphobotha_)  He also revealed that he has great plans involving the Big Apple. “In the next few years, I plan on launching my own property and development agency which is something that I have been working hard at. My ultimate dream is to sell luxury houses in New York City,” he said. 