ROYAL AM came from behind to stun Cape Town City 2-1 to book a spot in the last-16 of the Nedbank Cup at Chartsworth Stadium on Saturday afternoon. City, who thumped John Maduka’s Bloemfontein Celtic last season at the same stage of the tournament were quick to settle despite the loss. They deservedly took the lead in the ninth minute. Captain Thami Mkhize broke down free on the right and squared for Khanyisa Mayo, who was unmarked at the back post. With the ball eluding everyone, the son of former Bafana and Kaizer Chiefs star Patrick Mayo produced a thumping finish. Mayo was the star of Richards Bay FC in the GladAfrica Championship’s progression to the quarter finals of last term, scoring three goals. That saw City pull all the stops to come for him at the beginning of the season, as he was named the Most Promising player of the Tournament. While City was not troubled and were ahead in the interval, they shot themselves in the foot in the second half. Former Free State Stars winger Relebogile Makhouane inexplicably scored in his own net just five minutes into the second stanza, when he was trying to clear the ball for safety. That stung the home side to life as they took the lead in fine fashion five minute later. AM were awarded a free kick outside the box and Lantshene Phalane stepped up to curl a brilliant free kick to beat Hugo Marques hands down. AM should have scored a third late in the game, but Jabulani Ncobeni, clean through on goal, tried to be unselfish but his attempted cross could not find an intended target. The progression of AM in the Ke Yona Cup came on the back of coach Maduka who couldn’t select new signings such as Ricardo Nascimento due to work permit issues, but was able to call upon Thabo Matlaba and Mxolisi Macuphu. City coach Eric Tinkler could not call upon new signings - Mogamat May, Darwin Gonzalez from Venezuela, Cameroon midfielder Brice Ambina and Gambian Kajally Drammeh, presumably the latter trio due to the work permits not issued. Royal AM now join Mamelodi Sundowns, Summerfield Dynamos, SuperSport United, Orlando Pirates, Swallows, TTM and University of Pretoria in the Last-16.