A PIETERMARITZBURG hospital, filled with patients, was allegedly in line to be set alight during the peak of last year’s July unrest. This was according to Police Minister Bheki Cele as he continued his testimony during the SA Human Rights Commission’s hearing into the unrest. Cele told the commission: “I got the other information one morning about burning the hospital with patients. That hospital would have been in Pietermaritzburg. “I said to the provincial commissioner, no matter what, that can’t happen.” According to Cele, the situation had nothing to do with hunger and poverty. It had everything to do with people wanting to forcefully and violently change the system. “There was information about bursting the oil line from Durban to Joburg and about poisoning the water. There was this thing of increasing general anger, besides looting,” he said. The unrest prompted the government to deploy the army to guard some key infrastructure such as airports and police stations. “Police stations were guarded by soldiers – because they were deemed targets easy targets for thugs who were looking to get guns.” Cele said the unrest had the element of “get them hungry and get them angry”, whereby people were desperate for essentials such as food and petrol, which they couldn’t get from their nearest shops due to lootings. “It was well-co-ordinated where people were called to come and loot.” Although Cele didn’t say it directly, he implied that the unrest was in some way a failed revolt. “An insurrection is a close sister of a coup. This appetite of undermining the elected structure, those are elements of a coup and insurrection,” said the minister. “There was a big campaign to delegitimise the police and scare them and slow them down. I remember there was a message that said, ‘Tell all those police living in Umlazi not to come back, even if they do come back they won’t find their wives and their children’.” Cele said people usually protested when they wanted something to be corrected, but that was not the case last July. “Here they wanted destruction and God knows what.”