A ROAD Traffic Management Corporation study making the rounds has concluded that certain car drivers are more dangerous because their vehicles are involved in more accidents. The top three cars found to be involved in the most crashes are VW Polo, Toyota Hilux, and Toyota Quantum. The CEO of MasterDrive, Eugene Herbert, has cautioned drivers to be selective in what they take from the study. “Polo drivers are considered the most dangerous on the road because they are involved in more accidents than other cars. What this study does not note, and which can affect findings is that Polos are one of the most common cars on our roads. Additionally, many of the cars in the top 10 of the study fall into the most commonly driven cars in South Africa,” said Herbert. “The study doesn’t state whether this contingency was considered in the results. If it was not accounted for, it can only be expected that more of these cars will be involved in crashes compared to other vehicles. The higher the presence of these cars on the road means a higher number of these cars will be involved in crashes,” he said. “It is possible that the results of the study are less of an indication of the quality of these drivers than what it is a reflection of the vehicles commonly seen on our roads.” Analysing such data in isolation is unlikely to accurately depict the quality of the driver. “Many variables can affect why certain cars are in more crashes. The condition of the roads is a variable that cannot be ruled out as having an effect on the results. Additionally, certain types of vehicles may attract certain types of drivers that do not necessarily reflect their driving ability. An example is the tendency to modify a Polo or the younger drivers that these vehicles appeal to,” said Herbert. The SunTeam ran a poll on the website asking readers who they think are bad drivers on the road. Over 895 readers voted the Polo drivers as the kakkest on the road, the Toyota Quantum drivers came in second with 870 votes and BMW is ranked third with 124 votes. Herbert said without more clarity on how the study was conducted, be cautious of assuming more crashes equals worse drivers. “There are many variables that could be at play and ultimately, you can’t measure what you can’t manage. Before drawing conclusions, it is important to first understand what the purpose of the study was,” he said. He added that people must be cautious of developing perceptions that certain drivers are more dangerous and therefore potentially deserve less consideration than other drivers. “Unfortunately, South Africans already have the tendency to base the degree of respect that they give to drivers based on the car they drive. Most drivers can think of the adage that BMW drivers think they own roads,” he said.