Three
videos that form the basis of the charge of inciting violence against
Bonginkosi Khanyile will be challenged by his lawyers during his trial later
this year. He also
intends on pleading not guilty, according to his legal team. The Durban
Regional Court on Tuesday heard that the trial is expected to take place
between 15 and 26 August. Khanyile is
accused of inciting violence during the July 2021 unrest. His lawyer
told the court they were expected to call just two witnesses to testify and
would challenge the video evidence submitted by the State. Khanyile
has not provided the court with any statement prior to the trial. Previously,
the Hawks showed three videos in court as part of the case against him. The first
video, taken on 10 July 2021, was of Khanyile addressing a packed Shoprite
store in Durban, where he called on people to support former president Jacob Zuma
by requesting his release from jail. The second
video of Khanyile was taken at the height of the unrest. Khanyile was speaking
at Warwick Junction taxi rank in Durban, where he allegedly urged people
involved in the unrest to continue to do so until Zuma was released. The third
video was taken in Howick, where Khanyile held a solitary protest, again
calling for the release of Zuma. Prosecutor
advocate Yuri Gangai said his case would rest on the testimony of 10 witnesses. He said
voice and facial recognition would also be used to link Khanyile to the charge
of inciting public violence. Outside
court on Tuesday, Khanyile told journalists he believed the case against him
was "thin", and there was a political conspiracy against him. He did
not substantiate the claims. He said
when he addressed crowds of people during the unrest, looting had already taken
place. "The
case is a fallacy and conspiracy against me. They are trying to blame someone
for the unrest." During the
July unrest, businesses were torched and looted in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal.
More than 300 people were killed. Khanyile
also faces a charge relating to the Disaster Management Act. These typically
concern alleged violations of regulations put in place during the Covid-19
lockdown, such as limitations on gatherings and curfew times. When
Khanyile did not arrive for his court appearance on 13 December, a warrant was
prepared, but it was stayed pending an explanation to court. Khanyile is
well known for his leadership role in the FeesMustFall movement, which
challenged university fee funding models, the outsourcing of staff instead of
hiring them directly and the presence of colonial-era statues and names at
campuses. Activists also called for a syllabus that also recognised African
research. Khanyile
was arrested in Johannesburg on 20 August 2021 and was granted bail of R5 000. SOURCE: NEWS24 