KAIZER Chiefs’ demanding supporters are guaranteed yet another season without any silverware to celebrate. This after the Soweto giants, once dubbed the “Cup Kings” of Mzansi football, were dumped out of the Nedbank Cup by bogey team TS Galaxy at the weekend. Chiefs suffered a painful 1-0 loss to the Rockets at the FNB Stadium on Saturday, ending their last hopes of winning a trophy this season. They have missed out on the MTN8 earlier in the season and are also highly unlikely to wrestle the DStv Premiership title away from Mamelodi Sundowns’ firm grip. This all but guarantees the Amakhosi faithful another season of misery where they will witness their team extend their trophy drought to seven long years. The last time Chiefs supporters had anything to celebrate was back in 2014-15 season when Stuart Baxter led the team to the league and MTN8 double. And since then, it has been a woeful showing in all the domestic competitions as they failed to add more silverware in the cabinet. Baxter has admitted that they are “gutted” after crashing out of the Ke Yona Cup but promised that they would try and wipe the tears from their supporter’s faces by finishing strong in the league. “Everybody in the dressing room is absolutely gutted because of course we classed ourselves as one of the teams with aspirations to win this trophy,” said Baxter. “We have seen that trophy disappear so we must do the best we can in the league and finish as high as we can. The cup was one of our short-term goals, we didn’t want to throw that away, but we have done so no one is happy with that. “We must show now in the league that we are building something that could lead to something special next season. “It’s a curse for a big club, we are a club with a lot of demands from ourselves and our supporters.” It was déjà vu for Amakhosi as they were reminded of their embarrassing 1-0 loss to Galaxy in the final of the same competition back in 2019. The Rockets made their name at the expense of Amakhosi, becoming the first team from the second division to win this competition. Baxter, back in his second stint at the club, is trying to awaken the sleeping giant that is Chiefs and get them to win trophies again. “A solid Chiefs has been missing for a while, I’m not the only one who has been searching for that Kaizer Chiefs,” added Baxter. “We can’t give away easy goals if we want to rediscover that solid Kaizer Chiefs we all know. We can’t miss chances like we are doing. But I think it’s a lot bigger than that, it is finding a way to get your best players on the field.”