THE race for the remaining places at the 2022 World Cup finals in Qatar is hotting up. Fifa has confirmed the draw for the 2022 World Cup finals will take place in April. The draw is likely to be held in Doha, Qatar after all qualifiers have been concluded. The African World Cup play-offs will be staged next month with 10 teams competing for five places. But there will be disappointment for one of Liverpool’s two superstars, Mohamed Salah or Sadio Mane. Saha’s Egypt are drawn against Mane’s Senegal in the play-offs. There’s also a possibility that Portugal captain Cristiano Ronaldo will not be at the World Cup finals. Portugal will face Turkey in the European semi-final play-offs, while winners in the 2006 World Cup Italy will face North Macedonia in the other semifinal. Should both Italy and Portugal advance, they will meet in the play-off final. Fifteen nations including defending champions France Germany, Denmark, France, Belgium, Croatia, Spain, Serbia, England, Switzerland and Netherlands, have already secured their spots at the global showpiece. But there are still 17 places up for grabs. In South America’s Conmebol region, Brazil and Argentina have qualified with three games to spare. Ecuador is third, followed by Uruguay and Peru in fifth place. The four top teams in the Conmebol region automatically qualify for the World Cup finals, while the fifth-placed side can advance via inter-continental play-offs featuring three other nations from Asia, Concacaf and Oceania. In the Concacaf region, three teams will qualify automatically with a fourth entering a play-off against the winner of the Oceania play-off. Canada, USA and Mexico occupy those three spots. In Asia, Iran and South Korea have qualified. Oceania will stage a nine-team tournament in March to decide which team advances to the inter-continental play-off for a spot at the finals. The winner of the 14-30 March competition will face the fourth-placed team from the Concacaf region. The World Cup Qatar finals will start on 21 November until 18 December.