SUPERSPORT United coach Kaitano Tembo hopes the return of deadly striker Thamsanqa Gabuza from injury will give him more options in attack. Gabuza (34) is set for a return in the DStv Premiership encounter against Royal AM at the Lucas Moripe Stadium in Atteridgeville on Saturday (3.30pm). Gabuza dislocated his toe in the game against Cape Town City in Tshwane in December. Bradley Grobler is out for the rest of the season, leaving Tembo with limited options in attack, and as a result, the team is suffering a decline in the standings. The Tshwane giants are eighth on the table with 18 points from 26 matches, and Tembo’s mandate is to end the season in the top six. But the 51-year-old Zimbabwean-born mentor is not losing sleep over his team’s decline in the log and hopes they will recover and collect as many points as they can in the remaining 12 matches. Tembo gave his boys a day off today to recharge their batteries and recover ahead of Royal AM’s visit. “Gabuza started training this week and could start the game on the bench against Royal AM. We are happy that one extra player is returning from injury. We have Iqraam Rayners and Gamphani Lungu upfront, and Gabuza’s presence will make a big difference,” Tembo told SunSport yesterday. Royal AM scored late to collect the three points courtesy of a 2-1 win in their first round meeting in Kwa-Zulu Natal last year. “We have not forgotten how they snatched the three points away from us in the dying minutes of the game last year. Gabuza scored for us, and maybe he is returning at the right time to finish them off this time. I am not worried about the log position. We still have 12 games and many points to play for,” said Tembo. Matsatsantsa a Pitori played two games in the Nedbank Cup and Premiership against Maritzburg United at the Harry Gwala Stadium this year. They won 1-0 in the cup game and lost the league game 2-1, and Tembo believes his team will win their next league match. “The defence is doing well. We have a few problems in attack, and we are not scoring many goals. We have a depleted squad, and we will get better with time. We have a young squad, and we are confident that we can end our season in the top six,” added Tembo. 