CHIEF justice hopeful Justice Mbuyiseli Madlanga has set his sights on leading a judiciary that would operate like a well-oiled machine. On Tuesday, 1 February, Madlanga took the hot seat when he was interviewed for the position of chief justice following the retirement of former chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. He admitted to many challenges facing the Constitutional Court about case backlogs, which has often drew criticism from those who felt that judgments should be delivered without delay. Madlanga is currently a Constitutional Court justice after he joined the institution in 2013 from the Marikana Commission, where he served as the evidence leader. Madlanga described himself as a leader who had, at times, served without titles but had demonstrated his leadership qualities to his peers who often asked him for views on several cases. When asked what the administration of the judiciary would be like under his leadership, Madlanga said: “I would want to see a court that is elevated to a level where the criticisms, at least those of the present moment, will be a thing of the past. “Of course, and I emphasise the point that I’ve just made, because there can never be a point at which there will never be criticism. “That’s an attainable goal. “So I want a Constitutional Court, a court that will run like a well-oiled machine, and that will churn out jurisprudence that we and hopefully the rest of our country can be proud of.” Madlanga said that in his career, he has led in different capacities even though at times he has done so without a title – specifically at the Constitutional Court. Top of the list of institutions that he has led and achieved tangible results with was when he was acting judge president in Mthatha, Eastern Cape. He also pointed out that he would also favour a mediation process to resolve the cases backlogs because in some cases, out of court settlement would be viable if explored. On the criticism of the judiciary, Madlanga said the judiciary should not be beyond reproach and said he was for criticism, as long as it did not degenerate to a level where the courts lost the respect of the masses.