An ageing
nun who stole over $800 000 (about R12 million) to bankroll a gambling habit and fund lavish
holidays was jailed for a year in California on Monday. Mary
Margaret Kreuper, 80, swore to a life of poverty when she took her vows six
decades ago. But as
principal of a Roman Catholic elementary school near Los Angeles, she diverted
$12 million of school funds to pay for gambling jaunts in Las Vegas, a court
heard. She also
used the money to take luxury trips to swanky resorts like Lake Tahoe, where
well-heeled tourists gather to cruise in the summer and ski in the winter. According
to The Los Angeles Times, Kreuper told the court: I have
sinned, I have broken the law, and I have no excuses. She said
her crimes were "a violation of my vows, the commandments, the law, and
above all the sacred trust that so many had placed in me". 'No excuse' Kreuper
admitted wire fraud and money laundering during a hearing last year. The court
was told how money sent to the school to pay for tuition and charitable
donations was instead funnelled into secret accounts that Kreuper controlled. When an
audit threatened to expose the scheme, Kreuper told employees to destroy
incriminating documents, the court heard. The Times
reported that when she was initially confronted by the Archdiocese of Los
Angeles, Kreuper argued that priests were better paid than nuns and that she
thought she deserved a raise. Kreuper's
lawyer, Mark Byrne, asked that she be allowed to serve her time at the convent
where she had been kept since her crimes were uncovered in 2018. He said she
was addicted to gambling. "This
is not an excuse for what she did," he said, according to the Times. He added: This is
merely an explanation. District
Judge Otis D Wright II told Kreuper that he had wrestled with what to do with
her, and acknowledged she had been a good teacher for many decades, "But
somewhere along the line, you just ran completely off the road, and I think you
understand that. At least I hope you do," he said. Kreuper was
sentenced to 12 months and one day behind bars. SOURCE:
NEWS24 