 THE next-generation and next-level Ford Ranger Raptor has arrived. Built to dominate in the desert, master the mountains and rule everywhere in between as it raises the off-road performance bar as a bakkie built for true enthusiasts. Developed by Ford Performance, the Ranger Raptor is the ultimate performance derivative of the next-gen Ranger. With smarter technology controlling tougher, next-generation hardware, Ranger Raptor blends raw power with mechanical and technical precision to create the most advanced Ranger yet. “We’ve really focused on delivering a genuine performance truck with the next-gen Ranger Raptor,” said Ford Performance Chief Program Engineer for Ranger Raptor, Dave Burn said. “It’s significantly faster, looks incredible, is packed with new features and is the strongest Built Ford Tough Ranger we’ve ever made.” The biggest news for performance fans is the introduction of a new twin-turbo 3.0-litre EcoBoost V6 producing 292kW and 583Nm tuned by Ford Performance. The twin-turbo 3.0-litre EcoBoost V6 engine boasts a compacted graphite-iron cylinder block, which is around 75 percent stronger and up to 75% stiffer than the iron used in traditional castings. “The 3.0-litre brings a different dynamic to the Ranger Raptor that will satisfy even the most hardcore performance enthusiast,” said Burn.  “The acceleration and raw performance of the new powertrain leaves you grinning from ear-to-ear.” For the first time, Ranger Raptor gets an advanced permanent four-wheel drive system with an all-new electronically controlled on-demand two-speed transfer case, combined with front and rear locking differentials. Matching the enhanced capability of Ranger Raptor is an all-new design that takes the design of the next-gen Ranger to the next level.  Emphasising the width of the bakkie are flared wheel arches, Ford truck DNA C-clamp headlights, bold F-O-R-D lettering on the grille, and the bumper that’s separated from the grille.  The Ranger Raptor boasts a fully digital cabin, with high resolution 12.4-inch digital cluster and 12-inch centre touchscreen boasting Ford’s new-generation SYNC 4Av connectivity and entertainment system, which offers both Apple and Android wireless smartphone connectivity. A Bang & Olufsen vi sound system provides the soundtrack for the next adventure.