KAIZER Chiefs warmed up for the Soweto derby against arch-rivals Orlando Pirates with a morale-boasting 1-0 victory over relegation-threatened Baroka on Saturday. The game was heading for a goalless draw when Zimbabwean star Khama Billiat grabbed a winner in injury time to break the home side’s hearts at the Peter Mokaba Stadium. Coach Stuart Baxter could afford a smile as he praised his team for registering their first win of the year in dramatic style. Baxter applauded his team for their never-say-die attitude in what he described as a difficult away match. Amakhosi are now going into the DStv Premiership derby against Pirates at the Orlando Stadium on Saturday (3.30pm) full of confidence thanks to the win over the Limpopo-based outfit. “The lads deserve a massive pat on the back for two reasons. One, they kept going and believed that we could snatch a late winner and two, we have the derby coming up against Pirates and you never knew if they would take their eye off the ball and focus on the Pirates game. “It is always tricky to play a game before a derby and I thought we showed discipline and can take the positives out of this game and shift our minds to the derby,” said Baxter. The former Bafana coach was relieved to see his team score their first goal this year. He could not hide his excitement. He punched his fist in the air to celebrate the goal and showed a broad smile. The win against bottom-of-the-table Baroka meant a lot to the Scottish mentor. Baxter emphasised its importance. He believes the Soweto giants were more deserving of the win than their hosts as it moved them to a distant second place on the table with 32 points from 18 matches. Mamelodi Sundowns are at the top of the standings with 48 points from 21 matches, and they are in pole position to defend their league title. “Our build-up play was good. We didn’t lose the ball a lot. The boys played good football in the final third of the field and our movement was good. We created chances and deserved to win. “It was not an easy game. It was a game before the derby, and we were desperate to win the game going into the derby. Pirates are a completely different game. We have fresh legs and Bernard Parker will be back. We have an almost full squad available for the derby,” added Baxter.