POLICE have arrested a man they highly believe is a mastermind behind a spate of kidnappings for ransom in Gauteng. The alleged kingpin was arrested on Wednesday, 23 February, by the Crime Intelligence National Anti-Kidnapping Task Team. Police spokeswoman Colonel Athlenda Mathe said the arrested 37-year-old man is believed to be the mastermind and alleged kingpin behind a spate of high-profile kidnappings where a ransom was demanded in different parts of Gauteng and in Maputo, Mozambique. She said on Wednesday afternoon, an intelligence-driven operation led the task team to an identified address in Brackenhurst where the team pounced on the alleged kingpin and his three associates. “At this address, police found and seized three high powered vehicles, 6 000 tablets of Mandrax, hard cash, a receipt of sale for a R1,9 million property in Bryanston, several high-end luxury brand clothing all of which police believe were acquired through money received from ransom cash payments. All four were arrested,” she said. Mathe said on 24 February the team continued with the tracing of another suspect who is part of this syndicate. “The team kept an observation at an identified address in Benoni and moved in to arrest the suspect. Another high-performance vehicle was seized and the suspect was apprehended and is currently in police custody.” Mathe said that the mastermind and his associates are accused of kidnapping and demanding a ransom in a number of high-profile cases which include the case of Jahyr Abdullah, a Mozambican national and his friend who were kidnapped on 15 October 2021. “The pair had just entered Joburg from Mozambique in a three-vehicle motorcade when they were pulled over by their captors who were driving a blue BMW Sedan fitted with blue lights and sirens. The pair were taken from their motorcade and held captive. The friend was rescued on the same day by different officials from law enforcement agencies and private security companies, while Abdullah was rescued a month later at an identified address by the task team,” she said. “In addition, another case is of Yasin Bhiku, an Indian national who was kidnapped on the driveway of his home in Lenasia. This incident took place on 11 January 2021, when Bhiku was returning home from morning prayer. “Hot on the heels of his captors, Bhiku was released and found unharmed by the task team,” she said. Mathe said the team is following intelligence-driven information on other active high-profile kidnapping cases where ransom demands have been made.