Bafana Bafana defender Siyanda Xulu’s career is in the wilderness after his contract was prematurely terminated by Israel side Hapoel Tel Aviv following reports of having gone AWOL. It was confirmed on Monday that the club and the player are no longer an item, and the 30-year-old Xulu is now a free agent. Reports emanated at the weekend that Xulu allegedly had a fallout with his coaches. Bad news for South Africa is that Xulu was a pillar of the Bafana Bafana defence, and national team coach Hugo Broos could be troubled selecting an unattached player. Hapoel Tel Aviv’s contract with the former Maritzburg United defender was due in June this year, having joined the club in 2020. The club’s owner, Itzik Nisanov told Sport5, that “our defender Siyanda Xulu did something that should not be done”. “His return to the club is not at all on the agenda. His career at Hapoel Tel Aviv is finished,” said the boss. While Hapoel have since written a letter to his agency informing them about the player’s situation, Xulu’s South African agent Paul Mitchell declined to give clarity only referring us to a statement he released through our sister publication, Soccer Laduma. However, Xulu’s agent who represents him in Israel, Idan Ben Abu, had initially said the ball was in Hapoel Tel Aviv’s court. “No unusual action was taken by Hapoel Tel Aviv or coach Kobi Refuah,” he said. The former Maritzburg United captain has had his share of problems in Israel, having been detained on his return for pre-season with his club following a visit to Mzansi.Xulu was detained at the Ben Gurion Airport and went for questioning before being denied entrance into the country “due to Covid-19 restrictions”. Despite all the negativity, Xulu has featured in 18 of Hapoel’s 24 league games this season. The 30-year-old centre-back also faced a similar situation in Russia at FC Rostov. He had a fallout with the club’s coach Igor Gamula, who allegedly made a racist joke towards him in 2014. Xulu then returned to join Chiefs in 2015