ON TUESDAY, the happy Lebo danced joyfully to amuse her colleagues. But yesterday, Wednesday 9 February the joy at the hospital had turned to shock and sadness. SHOTS RANG OUT IN THE PARKING LOT AND THE DANCING NURSE LAY DEAD! ASSISTANT nurse Lebo Monene (30) was shot dead in front of her department at Tembisa Hospital in Ekurhuleni, allegedly by her police boyfriend. After shooting her, the 30-year-old man shot himself, but did not die. According to Brigadier Brenda Muridili of Gauteng police , the officer came in driving a state vehicle but it was uncertain if his gun belonged to the state or not. A murder case was opened.  Her colleagues said Lebo was like a sister to them. “She used to share a lot of things with me,” said a colleague. “I knew her boyfriend was a bully and possessive. She wanted to leave but he threatened her.” Colleagues admired Lebo for being respectful to everyone and very friendly. The suspect and Lebo shared a two-year-old daughter and she had a four-year-old from a previous relationship. Tembisa Hospital has closed for a while after the incident.  According to a source close to the cop, he worked as a detective constable in the tracing unit based at Norkem Park, Ekurhuleni. “He was very good at what he did. He traced dangerous criminals including those in neighbouring countries. He recently nabbed a wanted criminal at the border between South Africa and Mozambique.” Gauteng health spokesman Motalatale Modiba said the hospital had to divert calls to nearby facilities to allow police to work at the crime scene.“The motive of the attack is unclear and the department has released a statement about the tragic incident that has left both staff and patients shocked,” she said.  Modiba said admitted patients will continue to receive care and the public will be notified when the facility reopens. The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa told News24 it wanted the Health Department to challenge and reconsider the law that allows police officials to enter health premises with their guns. Spokeswoman Simphiwe Gada said police should only carry guns when escorting dangerous people inside health facilities. “This incident has highlighted the need to reconsider allowing officers of the law to enter facilities with guns, and the need to have gun storage in healthcare facilities by security unless they are escorting a dangerous patient or a convict,” said Gada. “Denosa is thankful the facility is already organising counselling for the staff and patients who witnessed this incident.” Muridili said the cop was airlifted to Milpark Hospital in Joburg and was in a critical condition. 