South Africa's future has no space for both the ANC and EFF, the former liberation struggle will have to die so the red berets can lead the country to a better future. This was the argument of EFF deputy president and MP Floyd Shivambu as he tore into President Cyril Ramaphosa's state of the nation address which he said was peppered with a factually incorrect statement such as the government cannot create jobs. Shivambu said Ramaphosa has embarrassed the nation by making such a statement because the state should play a significant role in leading the economic growth and not have a hidden hand in growing the economy as proposed by the president in his future. "The future does not have space for both the ANC and the EFF and one must die. It has to be the ANC that has outlived its purposefulness. It doesn't know whether it's a liberation movement, or it doesn't know what it stands for," Shivambu said. But Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola dismissed Shivambu's criticism of Ramaphosa's statement about the role of the state in creating jobs as a distortion. Lamola said even powerhouses such as China that have been quoted by Shivambu as exemplary for creating jobs allowed private companies to invest in its efforts and it was not solely the state. "The president was very clear about the role of the state in helping to create jobs and also in helping the creation also economic growth. What honourable Shivambu said about China has, China socialism with Chinese characteristics, and the Chinese characteristics allow for private sector direct investment into the economy," rebuffed Lamola. Shivambu said China was the fastest growing economy led by that country's Communist Party where everything is centrally planned. "The state plays a significant role in the creation of jobs and development of the productive forces. More than 133 Big corporations in the world global its 500, are Chinese companies and more than 100 of those are state-owned by the Chinese People's Republic of China in terms of what tends to happen, and China has elevated poverty of more than 800 million," he said. Shivambu this was happening under capable leadership, unlike Ramaphosa who unashamedly has said the state can't create jobs. He added that the country needed a development state, not a state that was enriching the few and managing the few as was the case. The EFF deputy leader also characterized Ramaphosa for his public relations stance of launching insignificant infrastructure projects such as paving roads while countries such as Ethiopia and other African states were launching big projects. During the Tuesday debate, Police Minister Bheki Cele was forced to withdraw claims he made on Monday that EFF leader Julius Malema has met National Commissioner Khehla Sitole to plot his ousting as minister. Cele was ordered to withdraw the statement he made under parliament privilege or table substantive motive if he wanted the claim to stand. He chose to withdraw.   