TRIBUTES are pouring in for former soccer star Charles Yohane, whose body was found on Saturday, 12 February. According to reports, the car he used as an Uber driver was hijacked and he was shot. His body was found dumped in Mzimhlophe, Soweto. At the time of his death, the 48-year-old former Bidvest Wits and AmaZulu midfielder was still involved in football, coaching ABC Motsepe League side, Leruma United. Safa president Danny Jordaan said human life could not be taken so cheaply. “We hope law enforcement will urgently bring the culprits to book and bring closure to the family. Yohane entertained football fans and for his life to be taken so cheaply is horrifying.” Former teammate at Wits, Stanton Fredericks said Yohane had the potential to become one of the best coaches in Mzansi. ALSO READ: FORMER SOCCER STAR FOUND DEAD! “Charles was a total professional on and off the field. He was a bit shy but had a great sense of humour when you get to know him as he would crack jokes,” he said. “He would take money from his pocket and give it to youngsters for transport and to buy snacks. If it wasn’t for him the team wouldn’t have survived.” He said Yohane produced players for the PSL, such as Reeve Frosler, Rowan Human and Phakamani Mahlambi. Zimbabwean Edelbert Dinha is still struggling to come to terms with his fellow countryman’s death. “I have good memories we shared in the Zimbabwean national team and playing against each other in South Africa,” he said. “He was a humble guy who loved people. The amount of passion he had for football is unbelievable.” He said he was hoping to see him again. Gauteng police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said: “A case of murder was opened and the police are searching for suspect/s after a 48-year-old former soccer player was found with gunshot wounds in Soweto on Saturday, 12 February at about 10pm. “Police were called by a member of the public about a man who was lying on the pavement at Soweto highway in Meadowlands. On arrival, they found a man with gunshot wounds on his upper body. He was certified dead by the paramedics. “The motive for the killing is unknown. A case of murder was opened for further investigation. Anyone with information should call CrimeStop on 08600 10111.”