GABADINHO Mhango’s sterling performances for his country Malawi in the recently concluded Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) will not guarantee him a starting berth for his club Orlando Pirates. Mhango, who was one of the star performers for The Flames in Cameroon, will have to wait in line for his chance to shine again at Bucs. This is according to his coach Mandla Ncikazi, who went on to make a bold claim that “maybe the PSL is bigger than the Afcon”. Ncikazi was speaking after Pirates’ narrow 1-0 win over AmaZulu in a Nedbank Cup last-32 match played at Orlando Stadium on Sunday. Mhango played no part in the result, with Ncikazi insisting that the Malawian would have to work his way back into the team. The 29-year-old netted three times at the Afcon as his country reached the round of 16, but his performances on the continent were not enough to earn him a starting berth upon his return to club action with Pirates. At the moment, the likes of Kwame Peprah, Zakhele Lepasa and Tshegofatso Mabasa are ahead of Mhango in the pecking order. “Pirates are a big team,” Ncikazi said when asked about Mhango’s exclusion. “You’ve got strikers. Mhango being one of them. you’ve got (Zakhele) Lepasa, you’ve got (Tshegofatso) Mabasa, who was not part of the team, and you have (Kwame) Peprah, so it is a galaxy of strikers. Maybe the choice, with respect, the choice at Pirates was to consider players who have been preparing for the past weeks whereas Mhango just came back. “We know he is a good player so it’s not because anything is wrong with him, it’s just competition. Currently, we chose to go with Peprah and Lepasa. He will get his opportunity in due course. He just has to work hard like other players. Mabasa was not part of the team. He couldn’t make the 20, despite being a top player, being a player who is part of the national team. “So Mhango will wait like all other players. We recognise and acknowledge his performance at the Afcon, but maybe the league in South Africa is bigger than the Afcon. But that is a question for another day.” Pirates will next be in action in the Caf Confederation Cup, where they face Algerian side JS Saoura at the same venue on Sunday (6pm).