LEGENDARY kwaito musician, Emmanuel “Mjokes” Matsane died in a car accident in May last year. And although the late Trompies member might be resting in peace, there is no peace in his family. This is because his six children are fighting among each other. When Mjokes died, he left behind six kids, three of whom were born out of wedlock. READ: CRASH KILLS MJOKES! Now these children are demanding a share from their father’s estate. Mjokes’ son, Jazmee (25), said they couldn’t access his father’s assets as his step-siblings wanted it. “I was born in marriage and these other kids, whom we don’t even share a surname with, want to take everything from us. “My dad left a lot of wealth including properties, shares and several businesses. I know this because he told me so. All of this belongs to my mother and the children because she was married to my dad. “My mother even has a letter of executorship, but my step-sister, Tshegofatso Boikane (38) is contesting it,” said Jazmee. He said they’ve been suffering since his dad died. “We have no food, no place to stay and we’ve become poor. It shouldn’t be like this because my father left us some wealth, but we cannot access it because of my step-siblings,” said Jazzmee. Tshegofatso confirmed that she was contesting her father’s estate. “As children born outside marriage, we want a share from our father’s estate. But Mamello excluded us after the funeral. We then went to the Master of the High Court and discovered she only included her three children from marriage. We asked her about it and she made it clear we will not get a cent because we were born out of wedlock. For that reason, we decided to contest her letter of executorship and everything was put on hold,” she said. An inside source said Mjokes met his wife, Mamello in 1993. They married civilly in 2003, but divorced in 2009. READ: LOVE, MARRIAGE ARE NO JOKE! “They got back together in 2018 and had a traditional wedding in 2019. The Matsane family welcomed her back into the family. Traditional ceremonies were performed to unite the two families,” said the source. But Mjokes’ family and kids are now divided on the issue of the remarriage. Mjokes’s relative said: “Mjokes and Mamello were remarried at the time of his death. We even performed a traditional ceremony to welcome her back into the family.” But Mjokes’ brother, Tefo, said Mamello was not his brother’s wife, so they were disowning her. “They were married, but divorced in court and never remarried. Now that my brother is dead she and her kids want to claim everything for themselves. We will not allow that because Mjokes had kids outside his marriage and those kids must also get their father’s share.” Mamello said she was emotionally drained. “I will not comment for now,” she said.