THE Premier Soccer League (PSL) and one of their major sponsors, MultiChoice, are playing their part in helping footballers create a future for themselves after hanging up their boots. It’s an all-too-common sight in Mzansi football to see former players struggling financially after retirement, as they battle to maintain the lifestyle they had while playing. This is usually a result of bad financial choices during their playing days, a lack of planning for the future and that some footballers are simply not educated enough and equipped with skills that they can utilise to earn a living once retired. But this could soon be a thing of the past with the PSL and the MultiChoice introducing the Player Transition Programme, an initiative aimed at assisting professional footballers after their retirement. The programme, specifically designed by the Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS), will see a total of 64 current PSL players enrolled for the six-month course with the hope to equip, and empower them with the necessary knowledge and skills to find careers after they retire. PSL chairman Irvin Khoza insists that although it’s not the league’s responsibility to equip players with skills for life after retirement, it’s something they chose to do for the betterment of Mzansi football. “We have to understand the limitations of the sport of football in terms of a career path. In every career path, if you don’t have any support and advisors, and everything is left to you without any support system then that can be so disadvantageous,” said Khoza at the launch in Joburg yesterday. “Yes, football is a very attractive industry, but you only have (about) 12 years to make the most of the benefits. At the age of 30 to 35, you must retire and then what happens? The important thing is that we try to help these players where we can. “It’s not our responsibility because we pay top salaries, but we do this out of the goodness of our hearts. There is a human element that goes with this, that parent inside that wants the best for the players who contribute to our product.” Khoza said it was important that footballers are not lost to the sport after they hang up their boots, because of the wealth of knowledge they have and can impart on the next generation. “The great majority of football players take up football as their one and only career from as early as the age of eight. “The Player Transition Program aims to prepare professional players for life after 35 years of age and helps to keep them within football,” added Khoza.