KAIZER Chiefs coach Stuart Baxter is convinced that his team will start firing on all cylinders once he finds the perfect balance. Baxter is desperately searching for a system that will allow him to field most of his best players at the same time without upsetting the balance of the team. The British mentor has often come under criticism for the teams he has picked this season, with some supporters not happy with certain players’ lack of game time. The likes of Nkosingiphile Ngcobo and Njabulo Ngcobo, for instance, haven’t played as often as the Amakhosi faithful would have liked. But Baxter insists that he can only field eleven players and it’s impossible for him to play all his best players at the same time. “We need to find a way of playing that gets all our best players on the field,” Baxter admitted. “But the conundrum there is that let’s say we play with Bernard (Parker), Khama (Billiat), and Keagan (Dolly) as our front three, then people will complain and say ‘well you don’t get Mshini (Nkosingiphile Ngcobo) into the team, you don’t get Leo (Castro) into the team or Samir (Nurkovic), isn’t it nice to have a big striker?’ “But unfortunately, you can’t get all your best players on the pitch all the time. “You either stick with some of the players that are doing okay, or you keep rotating the players and you never find a balance and finding a balance is something that will give you that solid Kaizer Chiefs back that we all want to see. “So it’s a bit of a conundrum because you don’t want to make too many changes, but you are constantly searching for the best balance. As soon as we find that, we will be at our best again.” Chiefs, who were recently dumped out of the Nedbank Cup by bogey team TS Galaxy, will look to erase that memory quickly. They have an opportunity to do so when they face Cape Town City in a DStv Premiership encounter this evening (7.30pm) at Cape Town Stadium. Dolly, one of the star players that Baxter heavily relies on, said they are desperate to bounce back. “It’s good that we have another game so soon after that result (Nedbank Cup) so we can rectify our mistakes. It’s a good chance for everyone to come back and try to win,” said Dolly. “I was very disappointed personally. I came to Chiefs to win trophies and I believe we have the capacity to do so, we have players and the quality. “I was upset and sad after getting knocked out of the cup so early, but we move on, we need to start being consistent and we will compete for a lot more.”