Former Banyana Banyana goalkeeper, Roxanne Barker, has chosen her 9-5pm job instead of playing football, which she says will not pay her bills. With this, she has ruled herself out of playing for Vasco da Gama FC in the Hollywoodbest Super League, which is set to start next month. Barker works for Toshiba as an operations director in Cape Town, and says reporting to training camps won’t help her because football won’t finance her daily expenditures. According to her, it clashes with her work hours and her management won’t allow that to happen every weekend. The Kimberly-born player played a helping hand in ensuring Da Gama beat City Lads 4-3 in the final of the 2021 Sasol League National Championship in Durban on Sunday. The Cape Town club walked away with R200 000 while Lads earned R100 000. But she will not be completely lost to her passion of football, as she plans on joining a Sasol League club than the Super League. “I know Sasol and Hollywoodbets (sponsors) are doing something, but still not enough,” said Barke. “How are you going to buy a house? How are you going to do these things? For me, it is not enough. I can play for fun and still have a good job, that’s what I’m doing now.” Barker was part of the Banyana side that lost the 2018 Afcon final to Nigeria in Ghana. She was also included in the Rio Olympic in 2016. In that tournament, Barker, who then had signed a contract to play for Dutch club Heerenveen, produced an outstanding display in helping to keep the dominant Sweden club at bay for most of the game. However, in the 75th minute, a cross was deflected by Barker over the goal-line, but then coach Vera Pauw did not blame her for the loss. “The first time I got a call up to the national team, I was a centre back,” she said. “I was with Durban Ladies and then I told them in that camp that I can also be a goalkeeper. But I enjoy playing inside (as striker) than being a ‘keeper.” Despite being the star that she is, she said she will decline Desiree Ellis’ invitation. Ellis has a tough job at hand to qualify for Banyana in the Africa Women's Cup of Nations (Awcon) finals this year with the last round against Algeria in the two-legged matches this month. “I can’t go. My job is more important. I have to look after myself because the country is not going to look after me,” she said.