AMAPIANO stars DBN Gogo and Focalistic’s romantic relationship has shocked Mzansi. The couple revealed they were in a relationship, leaving people wondering when it all started. On social media, DBN Gogo has been sharing photos of how she spent her Valentine’s Day, finally revealing her partner on a video posted on Tuesday, 15 February. Focalistic then commented with photos of them together, saying: “Vrostana thata, my cry bebe.” On Wednesday, a video of them from 2018 surfaced, proving that the two had been together for years. It showed them when they were younger, with DBN Gogo wishing Focalistic a happy birthday. ALSO READ : SINGLE AND MINGLE COUPLE'S WOES! The two have been trending on social media ever since, yet some people still don’t believe they are a couple. Twitter user Socially Anxious wrote: “Somebody please explain to me why I’m only finding out about Focalistic and DBN Gogo today? Big names in the industry and I’m only finding out today? When did they start dating? We need paparazzi in South Ahh.” Another user Malaika said she was shocked. “The DBN Gogo and Focalistic chat has me so shook,” she wrote. Then Zinhlees wrote: “Fell down to my knees in the middle of Pick n Pay. What do you mean DBN Gogo and Focalistic?” Popular user Hermaine M commented: “DBN Gogo and Focalistic – that was unexpected. What a beautiful combo.” The Real Xavier said: “I like how DBN Gogo kept her relationship with Focalistic a secret, despite other people looking for content. I’m sure there was a lot of help going on to put each other in the mainstream and continue loving each other. I stan.” The perfect end ?? pic.twitter.com/wUq84KaKu3 ???? Vrostana thata my cry bebe???? pic.twitter.com/msEtHMGaUZ Somebody please explain to me why am only finding out about Focalistic and DBN Gogo today?? Big Big Big names in the industry and am only finding out today?? When did they start dating???We need paparazzi in South Ahh the dbn gogo and focalistic chat has me so shook ?? DBN gogo started dating Focalistic while while she was still DBN sister.... ???? https://t.co/jg8afYdcSQ     