MLINDO the Vocalist’s manager, Nyiko Bilankulu, has come after DJ Maphorisa. Nyiko challenged Maphorisa to approach him face to face rather than on Facebook. At the heart of Nyiko’s anger is Maphorisa’s accusations earlier this week. In his vent, he accused Nyiko and Mlindo of back-stabbing him and failing to give him his percentage in royalties. The verbal fight has been going on since Sunday, with other amapiano artists joining in. At the time, Nyiko threatened to expose Maphorisa, saying: “We’ll expose his shenanigans and he’s not going to like it.” In an exclusive interview with Daily Sun, Nyiko said he rescued Mlindo’s career when Maphorisa neglected him. “Maphorisa neglected Mlindo and was not around. I needed to save Mlindo’s career. Maphorisa forced Mlindo to do amapiano and when he refused, he threatened to dump him,” said Nyiko. ALSO READ : LASIZWE OPENS DOORS FOR ASPIRING STUDENTS He added that there was a big fight about this but eventually, the issue was resolved. “I continued working with Mlindo as his manager. In 2020, we started recording and Maphorisa knew that. We even sent him a list of songs we were recording.” He said among the positions he held for Mlindo, he was also his road manager, DJ, driver as well as PR and booking managers. “Maphorisa has never been there for Mlindo, even when he needed him. When Mlindo bought his mother a house, Maphorisa was not there. When Mlindo had car accidents, Maphorisa was also not there. He ran away from problems and I had to step up for Mlindo,” fumed Nyiko. “Today, Mlindo is the number one best-selling artist in SA. This was a team effort and Maphorisa is not part of it. He was supposed to be a man, come to me and speak so we can fix it like adults; not post on Facebook and lie to his fans by trying to tarnish my name. “Maphorisa says I was broke. It’s good that he was my bank manager at that time for him to know how much I had. I wish him well, and he must be a man and come to me, not social media,” said Nyiko. Countless efforts were made to get hold of Maphorisa, but he did not answer his phone. He also did not respond to text messages. Mlindo only listened to the questions then hung up the phone. Several attempts were made, but he did not answer.