A Gauteng
high school teacher has been fired after asking a pupil to send him nude
pictures of herself and to lie to her parents so they could go to a hotel
together. The
Education Labour Relations Council (ELRC) fired Kagiso Senior Secondary School
teacher Itumeleng Jafta Selokela on Monday after he was charged with six counts
of misconduct in 2021. Selokela
was placed on precautionary suspension with full pay after two pupils
complained in May 2021. In 2019,
Selokela was accused of asking a pupil if "she gave her p***y" to
another male, and when he would also "get it". He was also accused of
asking the girl if he could book a hotel room for them. In the same
year, Selokela told another pupil that she had a nice body and asked her to
send him nude pictures of herself. He told the
girl to lie to her parents and say she had extra classes so he could book a
room for the two of them. He also said she would pass Grade 11 if she had sex
with him. In 2020, he
grabbed the pupil and tried to kiss her. Selokela
was suspended in May 2021 and was supposed to have received the list of charges
90 days thereafter. He received it in August 2021, two days later than he
should have. At his ELRC
hearing, Selokela pleaded guilty to all charges. At the sittings on 27 October
2021 and 21 January 2022, he said his suspension was unfair. ELRC
panellist Monde Boyce dismissed Selokela's assertion that his suspension was
unfair. "There
were closures of schools from June 2021 to July 2021, and there was no activity
at schools, and as such, the charges could not be served earlier. If there was
no such challenge, the issue of the 90 days would not have arisen." Selokela
was dismissed following the hearing and will be reported to the South African
Council of Educators (SACE). In 2021,
SACE reported that 11 teachers were removed from the register of practising
teachers after being found guilty of either sexual misconduct or assaulting
pupils. In his
ruling, Boyce was scathing of Selokela's conduct. "The
employee not only engaged in sexual assault against the learners, by grabbing
and trying to kiss Learner B ... the employer further engaged in serious acts
of misconduct that was of a sexual nature when he texted one of the learners
and promising to make Learner B pass Grade 11 should she agree to be intimate
with him." Boyce said
this conduct amounted to a serious violation of the dignity of the pupils. SOURCE:
NEWS24 