ROYAL AM
will leave no stone unturned in their quest to reach the next round of the
Nedbank Cup. The
Kwa-Zulu Natal-based side entertain Cape Town City in an all DStv Premiership
affair at the Chatsworth Stadium in Durban on Saturday (3pm). Royal CEO
Sinky Mnisi told SunSport his boys are ready for the big game, and they will do
everything in their power to book their place in the next round. The
outspoken administrator hopes his team will show up and execute the technical
team’s tactics on match day. “All games
are tough. Even if we had to play a team from the GladAfrica Championships or
the third-tier division, it would still be a tricky contest. We have always
been ready for the Nedbank Cup, and we are not bothered by the opponent. “But it
depends on how the players feel on the day of the match. We prepared them for
any possibility on the day, and it ultimately depends on how they feel,” said a
confident Mnisi. Royal
caught everyone’s attention and won the hearts of the neutrals in the first
half of the Premiership campaign. They played an entertaining brand of football
and registered a couple of wins against some of the established teams in the
league. They are
seventh on the table with 26 points from 17 matches, and Mnisi promised a great
show when the league resumes. He is
optimistic that they will continue to surprise many teams and build on their
first-round performance. “We will
continue from where we left off. We want to prove that our first half showing
was not a fluke. The players are happy, healthy, and raring to go. We prepared
to compete hard and win the games in all competitions,” said Mnisi. Coach John
Maduka took the players through their paces yesterday, and Mnisi said they were
ready for the showdown against the Cape outfit. Royal
beefed up their squad with Thabo Matlaba, Mokete Mogaila, Marlon Heugh, and
Mxolisi Macuphu. Businesswoman
and owner Shauwn Mkhize has assembled a great squad capable of beating anyone
in the top-flight. They will
pin their hopes of winning the game on the experience of Victor Letsoalo,
Mbhazima Rikhotso, and many of their other star players. “The new
and old players are ready. It is up to the coach to field them. There is an air
of optimism in the camp. We want to take it one step at a time in the cup to
see how far we can go,” added Mnisi.