THE BMW 420i Cabriolet is ideal for hot summer days – to feel the cold breeze through your hair, well in my case my beard as I’m a chiskop! And to feel the wind, it takes the 420i a few seconds to drop the top. The canvas roof can be dropped while on the move up to 50km/h, which is great considering all the rain Mzansi had. The Bavarian drop top takes on rivals, the Mercedes-Benz E200 Cabriolet and Audi A5 2.0 TFSI, and puts up a strong fight. Most cabriolets are lookers and will get eyes bulging, and the 420i is no exception although social media users complained about the more old-school, smaller grille. I’m not really fazed about it and it does suit the overall look of the 420i. Under the bonnet is a familiar 2.0-litre, turbocharged, four-cylinder engine. It delivers 135kW and 300Nm mated with an eight-speed automatic transmission. Not supercar figures, but more than enough oomph to show that this drop top is not only a looker.  The BMW 420i sprints the 0–100km/h race in a decent time of 8,2 seconds and has a top speed of 236km/h. In terms of economy, BMW claims a consumption figure of 6,6L/100km. I wasn’t too far off the mark and with the eternal fuel price increase, these figures are good for a sporty car. The 420i is also more spacious than its predecessor, offering space for four adults thanks to a wheelbase of 41cm more than in the old model. The new 420i’s revised roof configuration now offers luggage capacity of 300L with the top dropped and 385L when the roof is up. Inside the cabin, the driver and passengers hear loads of bells and whistles. Firstly, the Harman-Kardon is something special if you’re a music lover. It’s also kitted with park distance control front and rear, Bluetooth connectivity, cruise control, USB ports, heated seats, multifunction steering wheel controls, navigation, climate control, ABS, stability control and six air bags. The 420i offers a smooth and comfortable ride, and it’s such a cool car, even more so when the top is dropped. However, it doesn’t come cheap though as it will set you back close to R1 million. BMW made this review possible.