Former Kaizer Chiefs and Dynamos defender, Lifa Gqosha has encouraged soccer players and other athletes to get a higher education to help themselves and their families when they retire from the sport. Gqosha is currently pursuing an honours degree in Education with the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT). He vowed to continue studying until he earns his doctorate. He said long-term success in sport is not guaranteed, therefore, education must be an athlete’s number one priority. Gqosha encouraged players to go to school and stop living for today for tomorrow they could kiss their careers goodbye. He said playing football was a blessing because his father didn’t want him to play soccer but to pursue his education. “He helped me because of his background and experience at Orlando Pirates. He said I mustn't focus solely on football. That's when I saw the value of education. I started getting serious and I made sure I studied further after matric,” he said. He said the PSL and Multichoice’s Player Transition Programme for players to create a future for themselves after hanging their boots is a good initiative, however, he believes there are a lot of questions around it. “For me is not enough. You equip them but are they going to be employable? There's a lot of questions that I've asked myself regarding this initiative,” he advised. He’s of the view that if the PSL are serious about the future of players and ex-players they would’ve set up bursaries for them to go to university. “They can still do more. They equip them but how many graduates are sitting at home because they're unemployable? They’re toying with people's feelings and raising people's hopes,” he said. He believes that short courses aren’t going to help secure the future of the players when they finally hang up their boots. “Give them bursaries and we will be competing with the rugby and cricketers of this world,” he said. He added: “I'm just a fan who's raising concern regarding this but clearly they've done their research and they've seen that what they're doing is going to be fruitful and I hope they're doing the right thing. For me, they should have let them go to varsity.”