ENGLISH, the most universally spoken and written language in the world, is to many of us a second language. While admittedly a lot of us speak and treat it as our home language, it still remains a second, that often can be complex in communication. In a world with 6 912 different languages, 94% of the population does not speak English as their first language, and 75% do not speak it at all. According to many academics, people tend to struggle with the queen’s language because of their accent and ability to pronounce certain words. However, all of this seems to fly out the window when one drinks alcohol. According to Speak English Centre, the language becomes popular when consuming alcohol. And, researchers have found a reason to this phenomenon. They recently carried out a controlled study of the effects of alcohol on speaking a second language. With the research later published in the Journal of Pharmacology, it looked at a group of Germans who were learning to speak Dutch. After a couple of cold ones, the group was recorded speaking Dutch, and results showed that those who had consumed alcohol scored high points in terms of fluency and communication in the language. This, according to experts, indicates that the power of a relaxed mind in a social setting coupled with a few drinks can allow one to be more confident in speech and fluency. Thus, you find people who struggle with a second language, like English, mastering it after a couple of drinks. Furthermore, Brainscape publication explains the relationship between alcohol and language. Language learners often say they are able to speak more fluently when in a state of inebriation. They seem to identify a direct relationship between alcohol consumption and their ability to speak a certain language. According to Science Daily, a new study shows that the ability of bilingual people to speak a second language is improved after a low dose of alcohol. So, if you want to improve your English vocabulary, try something cold – but remember to drink responsibly.