KAIZER Chiefs management revealed that they were quiet in the transfer market because other clubs were reluctant to release players they have targeted. Amakhosi released a statement on their website revealing that other clubs didn’t want to do business with them even though players have shown interest in joining the Soweto giants.  Chiefs Ethiopian born target Abubeker Nassir has been training with Mamelodi Sundowns. Read the statement: “The Club did enquire about the availability of some players with a few Clubs in the league during the January transfer window period. But there was general reluctance from some of those Clubs to do business even though the players expressed their interest in joining Amakhosi. However, Chiefs have extended the contracts of seven players to avoid losing them for free come end of the season. Amakhosi extended the contract of Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, Sabelo Radebe, Happy Mashiane, Reeve Frosler, Keletso Sifama, Bruce Bvuma and Thabo Mokoena before the PSL transfer window closed on Monday. The six of the seven players are youngsters who were promoted from the reserve team. Ngcobo and Bvuma have been tied until 2024 while Mashiane and Frosler will stay until June 2025. Sifama and Mokoena extended their contract for two and half years with Radebe being offered a long-term contract that will see him stay in Naturena until 2026. Chiefs Sporting Director Kaizer Motaung Junior revealed that the main purpose of extending youngsters contract is to reduce their ageing squad. “We are happy that we were able to secure these seven players’ services for an extended period,” says Motaung Jnr “We have to ensure that our future is secured, and these are the players that will form an integral part in building a formidable team in years to come. This is in line with our strategy and primary focus of reducing the average age of the squad and building a young dynamic team for the future.” Motaung Jr revealed that they will soon evaluate their squad and decide on whether to extend other senior players contracts or not. “There are senior players’ contracts that need to be reviewed and we are in the process of evaluating and finalising those deals. We will make further announcements in due course.” 