RULANI Mokwena and Manqoba Mngqithi as co-coaches of Mamelodi Sundowns reached their 50th league game in charge when the Tshwane giants defeated Chippa United in the DStv Premiership at Loftus Stadium on Monday. The duo together with senior coach Steve Komphela, marked the half-league century on a winning note as goals by an own goal by Sandile Mthethwa and new signing Teboho Mokoena were enough to seal the victory. Since Mokwena and Mngqithi were appointed by Sundowns management to replace larger than life coach Pitso Mosimane at the beginning of last season, their statistics are remarkably good. In these 50 league games between the duo, they have only lost twice. Those losses came against Kaizer Chiefs last season and AmaZulu this season just before 2021 ended, to end what was the threatening campaign where they were looking to go unbeaten the whole season, to become the first side to do so in the PSL era. However, Mokwena and Mngqithi have done something remarkable too. Last season, with only one loss at home, Sundowns went unbeaten away which was the record in the PSL. This term’s fine start has also seen the duo of coaches claim all the coach of the month awards. It is just a matter of when Sundowns will claim their fifth league title on the bounce and 15 overall. Following the win over Chippa, which was expected against the Eastern Cape based-side, Sundowns moved to 47 points after 20 matches. They are 17 points clear of second-placed Orlando Pirates, who have played a game less. The duo’s statistics in the league “unfairly” trumps that of coach Mosimane, who built Sundowns to reach this level. Mokwena and Mngqithi, in these 50 matches, have won 33, lost two and drawn 15. Mosimane, in his half-century games in charge, won 27, lost nine and drew 14. However, to bring the former Bafana Bafana coach’s stats will always be unfair. Appointed as the Tshwane giants coach on 2 December 2012, Sundowns at that time were fighting for survival. But he was able to help them finish 10th on the league table. But once Mosimane got things his way, he won five league titles (more than any PSL coach), two Telkom Knockouts, two Nedbank Cups, Caf Champions League and Caf Super Cup. He won 187, lost 67 and drew 78 in 332 matches.