ISOLATING after testing positive for Covid-19 is now a thing of the past in Mzansi. But this only applies to people who don’t show any symptoms of the virus. This comes after the recent special Cabinet meeting held on Monday, 31 January, which has approved changes to the Adjusted Alert Level 1 Covid-19 regulations. This also follows National Coronavirus Command Council and the President’s Co-ordinating Council, which received updates on the management of Covid-19 in South Africa. With South Africa out of the fourth wave and the level of vaccination steadily rising, Cabinet has decided to make the following changes to Adjusted Alert Level 1 with immediate effect: Those who test positive with no symptoms do not have to isolate. If you test positive with symptoms, the isolation period has been reduced from 10 to seven days and contacts do not have to isolate unless they develop symptoms. In a statement from the Presidency, Minister Mondli Gububele said: “The rationale for these amendments is informed by the proportion of people with immunity to Covid-19, which has risen substantially, exceeding 60-80% in several sero-surveys. Cabinet also reviewed the resumption of schooling to full-time learning in all schools. Primary, secondary and special schools will return to daily attendance. The regulatory provision for social distancing of one metre for pupils in schools has also been removed. The ministers of health and basic education will in the coming days issue directives reflecting on this new approach.” Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has for the longest time been under pressure to do away with rotational time tables at school, which has affected schooling negatively and led to drop-outs, especially at public schools. The end of the rotational attendance to schools will be the light at the end of the tunnel for both pupils and their parents. Gungubele said: “Government commends all South Africans who continue to observe Covid-19 regulations and protocols. We also remind those who are yet to get vaccinated to go for their Covid-19 vaccination and continue observing basic health protocols to prevent the transmission of the virus.”