GAUTENG Emergency Medical Services workers marched 5km in Eersterust, Tshwane on Friday, 4 January to raise awareness of attacks on paramedics. Deputy director: communication Johannes Petrus von Benecke said this followed an incident on 19 January, where paramedics were sent for a female patient pickup. He said the patient was loaded into the ambulance and stabilised, but then the team was approached by a gunman. “He demanded the ambulance to be opened and robbed the paramedics of their cellphones. “In 2021–22, 15 incidents have taken place. These include armed robbery, theft of equipment, personal belongings vandalism of ambulance, physical attacks and shooting. “The EMS is an important component of healthcare provision, as it provides swift medical care and access to health facilities. We are appealing to the community to protect members and report criminals seen with ambulance equipment meant to save lives.” Von Benecke said the march was also meant to involve the community over attacks on their members. “The community is the ownership of EMS system. If the community doesn’t protect us, we cannot help because it becomes dangerous to come into their areas. “We don’t want to withdraw our services from Eesterust, but you need to look after us. Please report criminals to police. If prosecuted please community, go and testify against them.” He said emergency services were attacked all over Mzansi and enough was enough. “The impact is wide because if an ambulance is attacked, there will be no response for those areas that night. One ambulance makes a huge difference, and incidents are happening mostly at night, our officials when attacked will be working with patients and will be very vulnerable. These thugs take cellphones, wallets, radios and equipment from ambulances.” Von Benecke said if the area was very dangerous, they needed to be escorted by cops. Resident Elsie Jacobs (45) said: “Thugs must stop stealing from EMS officials because patients will die if they are not attended to urgently.” She appealed to Eersterust residents to work with the police and EMS so they weren’t disturbed or delayed when helping the sick. Another resident Casper Ngobeni (56) said: “The community must stand up and protect EMS because failing to do so will cause emergency services to hesitate helping the community.”