PATRONS of the famous kasi shisanyama Panyaza were left shattered when they learnt of the owner’s passing on Monday, 14 February. Panyaza Mcineka, aged 69, died after a long illness. His shisanyama was always the place to be in Rockville, Soweto, serving the best braai meat and chilled drinks. Speaking to Daily Sun, Mcineka’s son Siyabonga Mcineka explained that his father died in the presence of his family. “My father had been ill for a while and on Monday after we gathered as a family and prayed with him, he let go,” he said. Siyabonga explained that his father was a dedicated humanitarian and businessman who always helped in the community. He said when his father retired as a photojournalist from City Press, he established the shisanyama. “He opened the shisanyama in 2003 and it quickly became famous. He also wanted to sell alcohol but couldn’t get a licence so he had to move the business to 707 in White City, which was a bottle store. I used to help my dad run the place. Although he was no longer directly involved, he had a major input on how the business was operated,” said Siyabonga. ALSO READ | MR AND MRS JONES PART WAYS He said the business suffered a lot of strain over the years and the Covid-19 pandemic put the final blow to it. “Unfortunately when my father fell ill, the business never ran like it used to. I have dreams to carry on with his legacy and revive his business,” he said. Lerato Monareng from White city, who used to be a promo girl in her teen years, said it was the best place to make tips. “I used to promote various alcohol brands and got excited whenever I was sent to work there. Promo girls were treated with respect and made a killing with tips, especially during big events that attracted tourists and artists that are big in the industry,” said Lerato. She said she watched the business slowly fade away until it was officially closed. “Every one in the kasi wondered what went wrong, why the place suddenly got quiet and people no longer showed interest in it like before. Nonetheless Panyaza made its mark and we still miss the vibe,” she said. Nhlanhla Mbatha from Pimville said he had so many memories of the place. “We would party the whole night and because we never really had money, we bought hot dog rolls at the parking lot instead of meat from the shisanyama. All we wanted was the vibe. Everyone was a VIP there,” he said. Mcineka leaves behind his wife, two sons and four grandchildren. His will be laid to rest on Thursday, 17 February.