 PRESIDENT
Cyril Ramaphosa has stalled on the introduction of a permanent basic income
grant to replace the R350 social grant that was adopted by the government to
help the poor during the coronavirus pandemics. There have
been persistent calls for the permanent grant that led to expectations that
Ramaphosa was going to announce it during his State of the Nation Address on
Thursday at the sitting of the National Assembly. But
instead, Ramaphosa kicked the can down the road. "Mindful
of the proven benefits of the grant, we will extend the R350 SRD Grant for one
further year, to the end of March 2023. During this time, we will engage in
broad consultations and technical work to identify the best options to replace
this grant," he said. The
president said since it was introduced, the grant has benefited more than 10
million people and some have used the funds to start their own businesses. On the
economy, Ramaphosa said, while structural reforms were necessary to revive
economic growth, these were not enough on their own. He added the government
would unleash the potential of small businesses, micro-businesses, and informal
businesses. Without
going into deeper details of how this was going to be done, Ramaphosa
acknowledged that these were businesses that created the most jobs and provided
the most opportunities for poor people to earn a living. EFF Leader Julius Malema reacting to the State of Nation Address delivered by President Cyril Ramaphosa. pic.twitter.com/tVSk1kQMgf  "We
have started discussions with social partners as part of the social compact
process to review labour market regulations for smaller businesses to enable
them to hire more people while continuing to protect workers’ rights," he
said. He added as
infrastructure was central to our economic reconstruction and recovery, the
government has prioritised infrastructure projects to support economic growth
and better livelihoods, especially in energy, roads, and water management. He
announced the Infrastructure Fund with a R100 billion allocation from the
fiscus over 10 years. He said low
economic growth and investment in the country as well as unreliable electricity
supply have heightened the unemployment statistics. The work of the government
was to create a conducive environment for the private sector to invest and
create bobs. Ramaphosa
said the government will be reviewing laws that govern small businesses which
he said played a key role in creating jobs. There were too many regulations
that were unduly complicated, costly, and difficult to comply with and this
prevented companies from growing and creating jobs. "We
are therefore working to improve the business environment for companies of all
sizes through a dedicated capacity in the Presidency to reduce red tape. We are
reviewing the Business Act – alongside a broader review of legislation that
affects SMMEs – to reduce the regulatory burden on informal businesses,"
he said. The
president also announced a redesigned loan guarantee scheme to be introduced to
enable small businesses to recover from the coronavirus pandemic. Ramaphosa
recommitted the government to priorities identified in his address last year.
These were overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic, a massive rollout of
infrastructure, a substantial increase in local production, an employment
stimulus to create jobs and support livelihoods, and the rapid expansion of our
energy generation capacity. "We
have given ourselves 100 days to finalise a comprehensive social compact to
grow our economy, create jobs and combat hunger. This work will build on the
foundation of the Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan, which remains our
common programme to rebuild the economy. "As
the social partners – government, labour, business, and communities – we are
working to determine the actions we will take together to build such a consensus.
We have begun discussions on what trade-offs are needed and what contribution
we will each need to make," he said. He added
the country needed an agreement with all role players on the common
understanding of the current challenges facing the country and the need to
tackle unemployment, poverty, and inequality. This should be bolstered by the
need to address the immediate crisis and create long-lasting stability and
development. This should
be a new consensus which recognises that the state must create an environment
in which the private sector can invest and unleash the dynamism of the economy. While
committing to revitalizing the economy and ending inequality and injustice as
well as fighting corruption and ensuring those responsible for state capture
are punished, Ramaphosa said the country's economic problems were deep and
structural. "When
electricity supply cannot be guaranteed, when railways and ports are
inefficient when innovation is held back by a scarcity of broadband spectrum
when water quality deteriorates, companies are reluctant to invest and the
economy cannot function properly. "There
are moments in the life of a nation when old certainties are unsettled and new
possibilities emerge. In these moments, there is both the prospect of great
progress and the risk of reversal. Today, we are faced with such a moment. "The
path we choose now will determine the course for future generations. That is
why we are taking steps to strengthen our democracy and reaffirm our commitment
to a constitution that protects us all," he said. Ramaphosa
called on Mzansi companies to take advantage of Africa's free trade agreement
that recently came into effect following an agreement at the African Union
Summit at the weekend "The
Free Trade agreement is about Africa taking charge of its destiny and growing
its economies faster. South African companies are poised to play a key role in
taking up the opportunities that this presents for preferential access to other
African markets," he added. 