CELEBRATED South African coach, Pitso “Jingles” Mosimane, described the Fifa Club World Cup bronze medal achievement by Al Ahly as the proudest moment of his coaching career. The outspoken Al Ahly mentor hailed the back-to-back Club World Cup bronze medal triumphs with the Egyptian giants as special because he used an under-strength team to secure a podium finish in the United Arab Emirates in Abu Dhabi. Al Ahly lost 2-0 to Brazilian side Palmeiras in the semi-finals, but went on to win 4-0 against Saudi Arabia’s Al Hilal in the third-place play-off to walk away with bronze. A number of Al Ahly stars were away on national team duty in the Arab Cup and the African Cup of Nations tournaments, leaving Mosimane with a depleted squad and inadequate time to prepare for the World Club championship. Mosimane told the SA Football Journalist Association (Safja) virtual press conference yesterday that he did not see or train the players for two months. “It’s a special medal for me, and I won it under challenging circumstances with a depleted team,” said Mosimane. “I never saw my players for two months... the programmes clashed. The odds were against us in the Club World Cup without nine regular players. “They went to the Arab Cup, and I had one training session with them. The Arab Cup and Caf Super Cup clashed. “I had nine players in the Arab Cup, and they played one match the next day, they were gone to Afcon.” However, Mosimane (57) has given up on his ambitions to coach in Europe after he had a chat with Manchester United legend Dwight Yorke in Europe. “Those are fairy-tale stories, and it would never happen, and I spoke to Yorke, and he told me to forget about it,” he revealed. “European legends with Uefa A Pro-License coaching badges can’t get coaching jobs. I’m okay with Europe, let me stay on the continent.” On his exclusion from the Fifa Best awards nomination list, Mosimane said: “It is about where you are coaching and not where you come from. In my opinion, I wish to know the criteria used to decide the Coach of the Year?” Al Ahly are in the same Caf Champions League group with Mamelodi Sundowns and are the favourites to defend their Champions League title. Mosimane stressed that he does not have to beat his former team to win the Champions League. “For me to be honest, the Champions League starts in the quarter-finals, not in the group stages, and the Egyptian title is also important for me,” he said. Al Ahly will play Sundowns in Cairo on 25 February and visit them in Tshwane on 11 March.