ALMOST forgotten Mamelodi Sundowns defender Sifiso Ngobeni hopes to revive his career at SuperSport United. Ngobeni (24) is at Matsatsantsa a Pitori on a six-month loan deal, and he wants to grab this opportunity to impress the three-time league champions. The Mamelodi-born left back joined the Brazilians from Bloemfontein Celtic, but he played only two matches against Orlando Pirates and Marumo Gallants in six months. He is happy to be reunited with his mentor and former coach, Kaitano Tembo, at Matsatsantsa. Tembo coached the defender at the youth academy in Tshwane a couple of years ago, and he knows what the player produces on the pitch. “I requested to be loaned out to get the much-needed game time,” Ngobeni told SunSport. “I made two appearances, and that frustrated me a little bit. I worked with coach Tembo in the under-17 age group, and he knows me better and what I can deliver in the field of play. “I am here to get my confidence back and play a couple of games,” . Ngobeni was part of the Bafana Bafana squad that won the Cosafa regional cup competition on home soil in July last year. His main objective is to get back into the national team set-up, but he cannot achieve his goal while warming the bench at Sundowns. He said: “I have not given up on my hopes to play for the senior national team. I am a modern left back, and I can overlap, deliver quality crosses, and score goals. “I hope to use my time here to develop as a player and catch the attention of Bafana coach Hugo Broos.” To put it bluntly, Ngobeni is here to prove himself, and he hopes that his stay will not be cut short after six months and return to Chloorkop. He had his first training session with his new teammates on Tuesday, and he said he received a warm welcome from everybody. Ngobeni arrived with his Sundowns and Ivorian teammate Bangaly Soumahoro at the club’s training base in Sunning Hill. “You are forgotten easily in football if you do not play,” he said. “I am here to prove myself and feel I am going into an exam room. I have six months to pass the exams and convince them to sign me permanently.” Ngobeni’s parents and his four siblings support him regularly to chase his football dream. He is the fourth born and has three brothers and one sister, and he dedicates his success to them. His favourite left-back is Tebogo Langerman, and he hopes to follow in his footsteps and play regularly and win trophies. “I hope to hit the ground running and contribute to the team’s success. I am hungry and ready to play,” added Ngobeni.