LUVUYO Memela was a hero once more for AmaZulu as he scored the solitary goal in the Champions League Group B match against ES Setif at Moses Mabhida Stadium on Friday night. The veteran star found the bottom right-hand corner in the 42nd minute, catching Zakaria Bouhalfaya off guard. The victory saw Usuthu move on six points to be joint top alongside Raja Casablanca, though having played a game more. Raja will face Horoya in Casablanca later tonight (9pm). Usuthu were deserved winners of the game, flying out of the blocks early, something coach Benni McCarthy has been crying about. In just a minute the game started, Usuthu should have been ahead. Augustine Mulenga robbed off his marker and goalkeeper Bouhalfaya both at the same time. Nevertheless, the goal gaping in front of him somehow horrendously missed it, which was a more difficult thing to do than to score. Usuthu continued to test Setif, who gave little to trouble them. However, they were always dangerous in the chances they created, something you can expect from the North African side. Veli Mothwa came off his line to thwart the danger and tipped another shot out wide before halftime from Ahmed Kendouci. But Memela put daylight on Usuthu's faces. He caught the goalie off guard, slicing the ball past Zakaria with three minute before the interval. He received a pass from Philani Zulu and, while he was given time and space just outside the box, he found the bottom corner to score his second goal in the Champions League. Memela was also a difference-maker against Horoya the previous Friday at the same venue, scoring the all-important goal to see Usuthu win a group stage match for the first time. Usuthu should have added a second goal in the 52nd minute. They cut Setif apart like ribbons, but Siphelele Mthembu was adjudged offside. Mthembu was presented with another chance a few minutes later but slashed the ball wide. Setif replied and had an excellent chance to score through Kendouci, but Thapelo Xoki's power cut out the danger. Setif then didn't pose much of danger afterwards towards Usuthu, who hung on to another famous victory in the Caf premier's club competition.