It does not get is worse than this for Stuart Baxter. Probably while still trying to digest the possibility of losing six points from their no-show against Cape Town City and Golden Arrows in December due Covid-19 positive tests, according to his club Kaizer Chiefs, but more bad luck followed him this weekend. Their Nedbank Cup exit at the hands of TS Galaxy was enough to spark the club's fans to start spewing vile at the Englishman. It has been a frustrating couple of hours for Baxter. If he spends most of his time perusing through his name on Twitter, where he was trending since their 1-0 loss to Galaxy, then he must be getting the picture. And his trending Twitter responses are that fans are just fed up with him and wants him gone. And even his post match comments were also not good enough to buy him pity. SunSport perused through his trending section and compiled this vox-pop for you. Mpangazitha Ntombela said: "I've just seen an extract where Baxter speaks about long-term goals and just vomited. There has to be means to remove this guy from Naturena. Stage a sit in at the stadium on the pitch and stop matches from taking place until they fire..." Tumi@tsstumi wrote that: "Kaizer Chiefs plays like a squad assembled two hours before the match, under the guidance of Sir Stuart Baxter." Cellular_Jnr agrees: "I think now it's time Kaizer Chiefs release Stuart Baxter... The way we're playing, it's like the players are meeting each other for the first time." Wandile added to the debate, "Baxter is very much in the (Jose) Mourinho phase of his career, and the only reason he is still at Chiefs is based on his reputation of past success with the club. Modern football has clearly left him (behind) and what happened in India with Odisha FC was not a mistake. He is past it." Thabile_Makanda agreed with Stiga (Fredericks): "Very disappointing approach from Baxter while playing at home. I hope the stadiums get opened soon. The only time the management of Chiefs listens to the concerns of the supporters is when we raise our concerns with action." Skepe Matsebane believes there's "no need keeping faith in Stuart Baxter after this". Wrote Matsebane on Twitter: "Either give Arthur Zwane the job, or look for a coach who hasn't allowed modern football to leave him behind. The Chiefs hierarchy needs to also clean out and look for better players. Spend money!" Mpolokeng Mohafa said: "Baxter is finished as a coach!" There were further question marks raised against his team selection, like Themba Matlala raising a point: "So, according (to) what Stuart Baxter says, Njabulo Ngcobo, the reigning Defender of the Season is a cow compared to (Daniel) Cardoso and (Eric) Mathoho." "Then you've got people blaming us for wanting him out of our club." Njabulo says "Baxter will bench two natural centre forwards just to field (Bernard) Parker." However, appearing on Twitter as ChrisExcel@ChrisExcel102, says "This agenda of saying Arthur Zwane is better than Stuart Baxter is what divided the good thing that Micho (Sredejovic) and Rulani (Mokwena) were building at Orlando Pirates." Pat Bafo believes "Baxter is right, a normal team can't have a new technical team every season". "Unless you want your team to become a new Chippa United," said Bafo. Only Stuart Baxter will bench 2 NATURAL centre forwards just to field Parker. pic.twitter.com/3GD8aG1xvv Why sub a Billiat when u have a useless Parker in the field??? Baxter is something else struuu nasi?? pic.twitter.com/W4GjOmrHto #Amakhosi4Life#NedbankCup2022 After game number 6KC unpaid fans - Stuart Baxter must go*The only legitimate fans - it's still eraly, ya'll mad and you can leave the cub - we won trophies with Baxter, he knows what's best for the club, he trains the players Today ???? pic.twitter.com/2TRTG9mf5M    