AL AHLY coach Pitso Mosimane is preparing to unleash a “hungry” Luís Miquissone against his former team Mamelodi Sundowns in their mouth-watering Caf Champions League Group A encounter at the Cairo International Stadium on Saturday (9pm). The 26-year-old Mozambican forward, formerly on the books of the Brazilians, has a big point to prove against his ex-employers. He was signed by the same Mosimane at Downs in 2018 but could not nail down a place in the team. Miquissone was then loaned out to Chippa United for the remainder of the 2017-18 campaign where he also failed to impress. In the following season, he was sent out on another unsuccessful loan spell to Royal Eagles in the second division of Mzansi football. The talented forward then packed his bags for Tanzania where he joined Simba SC, exiting Sundowns without featuring in a single match. It was with the Tanzanian giants Simba that Miquissone finally showed his quality, scoring 18 goals in 50 appearances. Mosimane’s admiration for the Mozambican remained intact and he swiftly brought him to the Red Devils. And after a slow start, Miquissone is finally finding his scoring touch having bagged a brace in Ahly’s 4-0 thumping of Misr Lel Makkasa in the Egyptian Premier League on Tuesday. Miquissone will be desperate to inflict pain on Downs in their epic clash on Saturday. Mosimane, who was delighted with his side’s performance in their last match, wants to see more of the same against Downs. “I’m happy that Miquissone scored two goals in this game,” said Mosimane in his post-match press conference. “The club’s jersey is also a big. He’s a good player and we have to support him. “I took him out because I wanted to keep him hungry for the next match.” Ahly and Downs have created one of the biggest rivalries in the competition and their meetings rarely disappoint. Mosimane insists his team need no motivation heading into their massive clash against the Tshwane giants. “How do you motivate a player when he plays in the Arab Cup, the Africa Cup of Nations, the Caf Super Cup, and then you have the Fifa Club World Cup?” asked Mosimane. “Also, you come from the Club World Cup, and play in the Champions League. That is enough motivation for any player. “If you are not going to be motivated by that, there is nothing bigger than this.”