HIGH-FLYING Stellenbosch FC heads into this season’s Nedbank Cup with plenty of optimism and confidence. That’s because Steve Barker’s side is one of the in-form teams in the DStv Premiership this season and appear to be onto something special. The Cape Winelands outfit is having a stunning third campaign in the top-flight of Mzansi football finally stamping their authority among the big boys. They survived relegation by the skin of their teeth last season and appear to have learned their lesson as they slug it out in the top half of the table this term. Stellies are third in the Premiership table with 29 points from 18 matches, albeit a whopping 18 points behind leaders Mamelodi Sundowns. Nevertheless, they have punched well above their weight and will now hope to replicate that form in the Ke Yona Cup. Stellies will tackle Baroka in the last-32 at the Danie Craven Stadium tomorrow (6pm) eager to progress to the next round. Their defenders Rafiq de Goede and Marc van Heerden, who hope to keep Bakgaga’s attack at bay, are confident that this could be their season in the Mzansi version of the FA Cup. “I think for this season our main aim was to do well in the league and now that the Nedbank Cup is here, we need to push in that competition as well,” said De Goede. “We’ve had a bad run in this competition in the past so this year we need to push hard for this cup and see how far we can go. The mood is good in camp, the players are hungry because we left off on a high note before the break, we are hoping to continue where we left off.” His teammate, Van Heerden, said they will not be taking their opponents Baroka for granted despite having defeated them in their league meeting earlier this season. “They might not be doing too well in the league but this is a different competition and they will be looking to gain a bit of confidence,” said Van Heerden. “This is a cup that we have set our targets on this season, and we need to go out and be at our best to progress. “Some other (Premiership) teams are playing sides from the lower leagues but we are playing our top-flight peers so it will not be easy