A BRITISH Airways flight from East London to Joburg had to make an emergency landing at the Eastern Cape airport due to a faulty landing gear. Dramatic footage of the flight, showing traumatised passengers praying and asking for God to save them has been making the round on social media. Radio presenter, Thabiso Tema, who was also on the flight, described the whole experience as nerve-wrecking. “Quick update, after nearly being off-loaded for being late, our British Airways flight from East London to Jozi had to turn back because of an issue with the landing gear. You can imagine how nerve-wrecking the landing was. I will not be available for interviews for now,” he wrote on social media. ALSO READ | MISSING 4-5 STOPS FUNERAL According to British Airways spokesman Stephen Forbes, there were about 111 passengers on the flight and the airline was able to book them for a later flight on the day. “Our highly-trained crew made the decision to divert back to East London after experiencing a technical problem. The landing gear failed to retract,” he said. “On the aircraft’s return to the airport, British Airways manager on duty at King Phalo Airport and her team met the 111 passengers who were on board. We were able to re-accommodate passengers on a later flight on Sunday. “Some passengers opted to have their flight tickets rebooked for another date. The safety of our customers and crew is always our priority.” Also aboard the flight was Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane, who told the People’s paper that he is glad that he survived the incident. “It wasn’t a big deal nor life threatening, the response that we received from the cabin crew was amazing and they ensured that that we are calm, we are able to manage our nerves and there was not a of panic after they announced the issue with the landing gear problem,” he said. According Mabuyane the issue regarding the landing gear problem was detected a few minutes after the flight had just taken off and said that he is grateful to the cabin crew. He also shared that the emergency landing was a great inconvenience because he had to connect flights and travelled almost the whole day to get to Joburg for his business for the day and missing some of the meeting that he had already scheduled. Flight from East London to Johannesburg, just after taking off things went haywire. The landing gear malfunctioned and it had to turn back. Luckily everyone is okay… pic.twitter.com/6L78FdBLgt 