SUPERSPORT United defender Thatayaone Ditlhokwe has ruled out his team’s chances of winning the DStv Premiership title, but urged the other teams in the Premiership to make life difficult for log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns. The Botswana international wants other teams to punch above their weight and make Downs sweat for the championship. The modest footballer told SunSport that other teams must learn a valuable lesson from Downs as he admitted that it would be hard to stop them from clinching their fifth consecutive league title. According to the defender, a top-four finish would be an impressive achievement by the Tshwane-based outfit. “What we can do is to learn from Sundowns,” said Ditlhokwe. “They set a standard in local football. We won’t win the league title, but we can finish in the top four and end the season on a high note. “The other teams must make life difficult for Sundowns. We will play our part to slow them down.” Sundowns are at the summit of the table with 44 points from 19 matches, while Matsatsantsa a Pitori are in sixth place with 26 points after 17 games. They trail the leaders by 18 points with two games in hand, but Ditlhokwe has ruled out the possibility of a dramatic collapse from the leaders. Second-placed Orlando Pirates have 30 points from the same games and trail the Brazilians by 14 points. “Football is unpredictable, but it’s unlikely that they would lose too many games. We have to learn from them in terms of consistency and try to make things difficult for them,” he said. Matsatsantsa are preparing for the second half of the season and play friendly games regularly to keep fit. They will play against Maritzburg United in the Nedbank Cup first round at the Harry Gwala Stadium on 9 February. Ditlhokwe said they could not have asked for a tough start to the New Year in an all-Premiership battle in the Ke Yona cup competition. “It’s a tough draw,” said Ditlhokwe. “The two teams know each other well. To win the competition, you have to beat the best teams. “We are ready for Maritzburg, and we will do our best to advance to the second round.” Matsatsantsa are training with former Sundowns star Aubrey Ngoma, and Ditlhokwe had nothing but praise for the midfielder. “He is an experienced player and knows a lot about local football. We are learning from him, and we hope that he will sign on the dotted line with us. He motivates us in training and works hard,” added Ditlhokwe.