AMAZULU’S new striker Abraham Majok might not be what everyone expected the Durban-based club would sign. This is as coach Benni McCarthy was expected to unveil big name players looking at his ambitions for the club in the second half of the season. But Majok said he won’t talk about what he can bring to the club, and everyone must just wait and see for themselves when he plays his first game for his new club. This is when the season resumes at the weekend. The 23-year-old was unveiled by Usuthu last Thursday alongside Cape Town City versatile player Abbubaker Mobara. Majok, who holds dual citizenship with South Sudan and Australia, is likely to make his debut for Usuthu when they visit Orlando Pirates in the Nedbank Cup last-32 at Orlando Stadium on Sunday, if all his documents are processed in time. It is no secret that coach McCarthy was interested in Facundo Juarez from Argentina, who he likened to former AmaZulu forward Emiliano Tade. It came as a shock when Usuthu opted for Majok, who has scored 14 goals in 44 games since his debut for Australian side Western Sydney in the 2016-17 season. Majok is not perturbed about being an unknown. “Qualities, it is something I can’t talk about,” said Majok, who previously played for Israel side PAEEK. “That you have to witness for yourself. But everyone has to wait until the first game.” Majok said playing under one of the greatest strikers in Africa, McCarthy, was a big factor in his decision to join Usuthu. McCarthy, the only Mzansi footballer to have won the Uefa Champions League and was the joint top scorer in the 1998 Africa Cup of Nations finals in Burkina Faso, wants a striker who can replicate what he was doing during his heyday and score goals. Added Majok: “When you are approached by Benni you can’t think twice about it. “And this is a big opportunity for me to grow as a person as well. That’s why I want to do my best for this club.” Meanwhile, McCarthy’s London-based agent Rob Moore has parted ways with Lance Davids as his local representative in Mzansi. Davids was the facilitator when McCarthy joined Usuthu in December 2020.