THE KZN Department of Education has acted on the recommendations that were given by the independent panel that was investigating the racism claim at Grosvenor Girls High School earlier this year. One of the recommendations made by the panel was that the department should suspend the principal of the school after the racism claims were found to be true. The department has indeed acted according to the recommendation and suspended the school’s acting principal. On Tuesday, 19 July, the department revealed that placing the acting principal on suspension derived from the backdrop of the recommendations made by the independent panel that investigated allegations of racism and financial mismanagement at the school. “We are implementing the recommendations of the independent panel fully, we hope the findings and the recommendation thereof will become our point of reference for our education system,” said the head of department, Nkosinathi Ngcobo. ALSO READ |
Cold dead gogo ngiqokiseni! The independent panel that was appointed by the department in March found that racism in the school is systematic, structural and that white authority dominated all facets of the school. The conclusion of the investigation was made after the panel received evidence from former and current pupils, members of the teaching staff, general school workers, SGB and parents. During the media briefing that was held at the beginning of this month, Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu said they were disturbed to learn that the racism in that school was a daily bread thing. ALSO READ |
WATCH: What makes the VAG 1.8T 20V GREAT? The MEC said he welcomed all the recommendations made by the panel and that he had referred the report to the head of department for implementation. “Our duty is to protect learners from any forms of racial attitudes and provide them with a better chance to be a generation that will live in a truly non-racial South Africa,” said Mshengu. He also revealed that he directed legal services to lay a complaint against the principal with the Human Rights Commission.