 RABAT has officially been launched as the capital of African Culture at a glittering ceremony at the city’s Mohammed V Theatre in Morocco on 2 July. This was the official celebration of the February 2020 decision when the committee of African Capitals of Culture announced Rabat as the capital for 2022/2023. Africans celebrate Moroccan capital Rabat, following the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s (Unesco) announcement as a new centre for culture, traditional and history on Saturday. A large concert highlighted the jam-packed programme put together by the Ministry of Youth, Culture and Communication under the high patronage of His Majesty King Mohammed VI. The glamorous ceremony, supported by organisations such as United Cities and Local Governments United of Africa, the wilaya of Rabat-Salé-Kenitra region, prefecture of Rabat and City Council of Rabat, was marked by the presence of some officials and ambassadors. Top Moroccan artists including Douzi, Oum, African Vision troupe and Andalusian music choir Al-Amarti gave thrilling performances. In an opening speech delivered on his behalf, Youth Minister Mohamed Mehdi Bensaid welcomed the news of Rabat as the capital. “It reflects the special interest that His Majesty grants to the African dimension of the Kingdom, and importance of strengthening relations between our country and African brothers,” he said. He said that the celebration was an opportunity to present to the world the bright face of the ancient African civilisation, and highlight deep Afro-Moroccan ties. He further said it was an opportunity to highlight the richness and diversity of African culture through a diverse cultural, artistic and heritage programme. Mayor Asmaa Rhlalou said the capital would be a cultural and artistic African destination as activities would continue until May next year. Rhlalou added that the city was rich with its diverse cultural heritage, highlighting the role played by the pioneering royal project – Rabat, the capital of lights. This project, that had provided the city with state-of-the-art infrastructure, was ready to host major international cultural events. United Cities and Local Governments of Africa president Fatimou Abdel-Malik said her organisation was striving to make culture a vector to reconfirm the sense of belonging and self-respect. Abdel-Malik said the choice to make Rabat the first city to be celebrated as the capital was a recognition by leaders of the organisation of the efforts made to combine authenticity and modernity. The programme included the organisation of activities and events in fields including literature, poetry, visual arts, music, theatre, cinema, street arts, dance, digital arts and fashion shows. They would be organised in all historical spaces, public squares and neighbourhoods of the city of Rabat. – CAJ News