A KZN Human Settlements Department senior female employee landed in hot water for verbally insulting a pregnant junior employee under her department for enquiring about her maternity leave. There was an audio circulating on social media where the senior employee was lashing out at the junior employee for going to the human resource office to enquiry about her maternity leave instead of coming to her. The audio got the attention of the head of the department and the senior female employee was immediately placed on precautionary suspension. In the lengthy audio, the junior employee is heard explaining that she went to the HR office to get clarity as her due date is near. She explained to the senior boss that she wanted to know when she could take her maternity leave, but the boss kept on insulting her on how stupid she was. The boss went as far as telling her that her thinking capability was similar to those of people living in the shacks. “Your reasoning is similar to those people who stay in the shacks. You are very stupid and you think you are clever. You better start looking for another job because I don’t know how I am going to work with you when you come back from maternity leave,” said the boss in the audio. ALSO READ | Ellis focused on big World Cup goal When a junior employee tried to explain that all she wanted was to get an explanation on the maternity leave policy, the boss replied: “You’re stupid you can’t even read English.” Human Settlement MEC Jomo Sibiya said the department maintains a zero tolerance approach to bullying and harassment in all of its offices, including the Rental Housing Tribunal. Subsequent to this, the department has expeditiously engaged organised labour to explain what form of remedial action will be taken with respect to the prescripts of the Labour Relations Act and the Public Service Code of Conduct. “The offending employee has immediately been placed on precautionary suspension with immediate effect to allow the pending disciplinary procedure to proceed unhindered,” he said. ALSO READ | Jordaan: Banyana’s R9,2M cheque ready for collection Sibiya, who has worked very hard to establish a healthy relationship with Abahlali BaseMjondolo ever since he took office, also apologised to the Abahlali Basemjondolo movement for the comment made by the senior employee. “It’s ironic that when the department has worked hard to mend relations fences with a critical stakeholder like Abahlali BaseMjondolo to such that those relations had reached cordial levels a senior manager within the department would utter such an inference. I would like to apologise to the movement president Sbu Zikode for such remarks made by our senior employee,” said Sibiya.