JOBURG Mayor Dr Mpho Phalatse and MMC for Human Settlements, Mlungisi Mabaso, have addressed the public about the ongoing housing scams targeting vulnerable citizens. They were joined by law enforcement agencies tackling cases relating to these scams. In a bid to curb the increasing number of people who had fallen victim to scam artists posing as Mabaso, they roped in law enforcement agencies at all levels. On Thursday, 21 July, Phalatse met senior officers from Hillbrow police, the Hawks, organised crime from national SAPS head office, as well as the city group forensic and investigation service. “This approach is in line with collaborating and coordinating with all spheres of government to rebuild the country’s economic capital so we can truly call Joburg a city of golden opportunities,” she said. She further said fraudsters had even registered cellphone numbers in the MMC’s name, using it to extort money from residents. Last July, a case of fraud was opened at Joburg Central Police Station. “It was handed over to Hillbrow Police Station, where officers apprehended three suspects in Limpopo in February. They were found in possession of fake posters emblazoned with photos of the MMC,” she said. Tokolli Sedibe (29), Thuli Katjedi (29) and Ronny Magabe (35) will appear in court on 1 September. Mabaso said there had been a lot of increase in these scams. ALSO READ | Stolen diesel bust stolen cop car “Scammers put up fake social media accounts in order to swindle victims out of their money by promising to either jump the RDP queue or to sell them non-existing houses,” said Mabaso. He emphasised that human settlements, its officials and entities would never ask beneficiaries to pay for these homes. “RDP houses are free to qualifying residents. Those who t qualify are already destitute, and asking them to pay for a free service is beyond immoral,” he added. He said scammers often used social media platforms to lure victims. “They target Joburg-based residents who are in dire need of housing. Their modus operandi includes getting their victims to pay a deposit.” Mabaso added that they also often convinced them to pay via Pep, Shoprite, Standard and Capitec banks, and amounts were ranging from R3 000 to R20 000. “And after receiving the money, they collapse all forms of communication. Residents are warned to remain clear of making any payments towards people or businesses that claim they will get them houses or onto the housing database,” he said. ALSO
READ | LKG blames miscarriage on blogger Phalatse said any official communication about the department, including matters related to RDP housing, would come from the city’s website and social media platforms. “We’re dealing with multiple syndicates that might be working closely with officials. Law enforcement agencies are working to centralise all cases,” she added. Lizzie Ramogale, acting group head of the global forest information service, said eight cases have been opened and one official was on trial. She encouraged the public to open cases to strengthen these cases.