Minister of Police Bheki Cele has disposed of over 30 000 litres of illegal alcohol which was confiscated by cops from people illegally selling booze around Cape Town. Cele who was accompanied by his deputy Cassel Mathale and the national Police Commissioner Fani Masemola addressed cops in Belhar today before he walked around the storeroom where confiscated alcohol is stored. “Why I never find the real expensive stuff here, I can’t see a single Johnnie Walker even the cheapest Johnnie Walker,” said Cele as he laughed with cops. Cele said he wanted to at least see expensive booze such as Glenfiddich in the warehouse. With a huge smile on his face, Cele started to pour the booze into the tanks that were provided for disposing of the booze. “I wonder what is inside here (booze). Let me flush it down the drain,” he said as he poured a Jameson into the tank. “Hamba uthwala!” Cele exclaimed. While addressing cops, Cele urged cops to do everything they can to ensure that they work with communities to fight crime. He said tata Nelson Mandela stayed in prison for the improvement of the lives of ordinary people and cops must do everything to protect the community to realise the world that Mandela fought for. Cele said Mandela was not alone when he was fighting for the liberation of South Africa and it is working together that ensured that freedom came to Mzansi. “People always think that he was alone, but he was not alone, he had many other citizens together with him. You must remember that citizen of the world, remember that citizen of South Africa,” said Cele. Cele told officers that if they want to be successful in executing their duties they must always work with the communities. “Once you work with communities, results are faster, results are better as it happened in Alexandra where these criminals moved around shooting and killing innocent people at random. Because of the community the same night, we received information of where seven of them were sleeping and we arrested them,” Cele said.