DAYS after stepping down as party general secretary, Dr
Blade Nzimande was back in the top leadership as he was elected SACP chairman
in a hotly contested battle. This places Nzimande back in the top six after his
supporters unsuccessfully tried to convince provinces for him not to be
contested in a move that was designed to save his face and not embarrass him. The announcement of the new leadership was made at the
party's elective conference that is underway at Birchwood Hotel in Boksburg
outside Joburg where long Nzimande's former first deputy Solly Mapaila was
elected unopposed to the top job. Deputy finance minister David Masondo was
also elected unopposed as second deputy secretary. Other members who retained their positions were Labour
Minister Thulas Nxesi who returned his position as deputy chairman while Joyce
Moloi-Moropa retained her treasury position. Both were contested but emerged
victorious. Completing the top six was Madala Masuku who was also
contested for his position. The contestation of the national chairman position is said
to have derailed the SACP conference which uncharacteristically ran behind the
schedule as Nzimande supporters on his instructions pushed that he should not
be contested. This forced provincial secretaries into a marathon meeting
that lasted until late at night. It is said that Nzimande did not want to be
contested and his supporters with the Youth Communist League leading the charge
were hard at work to convince other provinces to have the former general
secretary not be contested but Western Cape leader Gwebs Qonde would not hear
of it. Qonde is said to have stood his ground and taken the fight
to the ballot and Nzimande won comfortably by 266 votes to 148 votes, thrusting
him back into the highest decision-making structure of the party. READ: Kuzoshuba - Ugly battle for SACP positions ahead Some members are said to be unhappy that Nzimande contested
and denied other younger leaders an opportunity to lead. He contested despite a
chilling swipe by outgoing chairman Senzeni Zokwana who at the beginning of the
conference said leaders must like dancers leave the stage where their knees
were weary. The conference by Saturday, July 16 moved to elect
additional members with the new leadership under the leadership of Mapaila will
address members of the media.