THE South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) in the Greater Tshwane Region is gatvol of the challenges communities are facing due to load shedding. The organisation said it’s high time they marched to the office of the Gauteng Premier David Makhura to hand over a memorandum of demands. At a meeting held on Sunday, 3 July, at Lethamaga Primary School in Temba, Tshwane, it was resolved that areas such as Hammanskraal, Soshanguve, Mamelodi, Atteridgeville and several others would come together to ensure they have a successful march where they will hand over a memorandum on Friday, 8 July. Fire Mashao, who is the regional convener of Sanco in the Greater Tshwane Region, told Daily Sun they were very concerned about the challenges communities were facing. “We had the Provincial General Council that took place last month whereby we got a mandate from different branches in Gauteng that we must go out and represent communities that are affected by challenges relating to electricity, and this is what we are going to do on Friday when we march to Makhura’s office,” he said. “We will make sure that we get strong mobilisation so that we can stage a successful march and our voices will be heard. We are making a call to the premier of Gauteng to also organise a march to the Union Buildings to get those who are responsible for electricity to think about the community and stop load shedding.” “As a civic organisation, we are not a political party, but we are the ears and the eyes of the community. Yes, we are aligned to the ANC but that doesn’t mean when the ANC is doing something wrong, we cannot point those things out,” he said. Mashao said they know a lot of memorandums have been submitted in the past but this time, if there was no action taken, things would come to a standstill. “Load shedding is a crisis like e-tolls. It must be stopped.” Resident Sinah Ngale said load shedding and water issues were a serious crisis. “We believe this march will shake things up a bit because we are tired as residents and we want to see change,” she said. Resident Sam Masemola said there were many issues that the ruling government needed to address. He called on the leaders to listen to the people on the ground as they were the ones that voted for them.