ACTOR, writer and director Mncedisi Shabangu passed away on Sunday, 24 July, at his home in Mpumalanga. The news of the actor’s passing was posted on Instagram by his close friend Hamilton Dlamini, who’s also an actor. “Mncedisi Shabangu passed away yesternight... May his soul rest in eternal peace,” he captioned a photo of him and Shabangu, whom he starred alongside in the restaged satirical play, Woza Albert. Shabangu died at the age of 53. He was born in KwaMashu in Durban and later his family was moved to Kanyamazane township through the Group Areas Act. His interest in acting and stage plays was triggered at an early age. In 1995, he enrolled at Market Theatre Laboratory, and over the years has written and acted in numerous award-winning theatre, film, and television performances. The Shabangu family also released an official statement on Mncedisi’s Facebook Page. It reads: Dear ALL, it is with great sadness that the Shabangu family informs you of the sudden passing of Mncedisi Baldwin Shabangu. He passed on in the early hours of this morning. The family appreciates all messages of condolence and requests privacy at this difficult time. Memorial and funeral arrangements will be announced soon.” ALSO READ : Sabela KZN Film and Television Awards recognise excellence! Dlamini told Daily Sun he is very heartbroken and sad as he has lost a great friend, a brother and someone he learnt a lot from. “Mncedisi was an actor, director, and writer, someone who is hard to find in this industry. I am very sad and heartbroken you know, he had a bright future ahead. He was supposed to start shooting Uzalo on Monday and also we were supposed to go to a European Tour of The Head and The Load by William Kentridge in November this year. He was going to play the first lead. I don’t know what to say but I’m very heartbroken. I’ve learnt a lot from him. He always said that without formal education you can make it if you work hard,” he said. He also shared that he will forever miss his smile and how he would always smile brightly even when things get tough. Dlamini also mentioned that he was told that before Shabangu died, he had stomach pains and he vomited. He said he then asked to go lay down and that was the last of him. Family member of the Actor, Mthokozisi Shabangu, told Daily Sun that Shabangu had chest pains not stomach pain. "No, he had chest pains not stomach pains before he died,"he said. The comment section was filled with sad messages and condolences from both his fans and colleagues. @lerato_mvelase: “Ooh Bawo” @omuhlegela: “Oh my goodness, we were meant to start shooting with him” @thobani_nzuza: “Like a thief in the night!!! Death be not proud!” @cearleys: “the world has lost an actor, a talent of a generation …. but mostly I will miss that laugh and generous smile.”  A post shared by HAMILTON DLAMINI (@hamiltondhlamini) 