THE family of one of the people killed in the tavern shooting at Sweetwaters in Pietermaritzburg has welcomed the arrest of two suspects linked to the shooting. The relatives said they were pleased that police acted fast in arresting the suspects and they now hoped the suspects would explain why they did allegedly this. The two suspects were caught on Monday, 11 July, just two days after the shooting of 12 people at Samukelisiwe Tavern in Sweerwaters, Pietermaritzburg. This was confirmed by KZN police commissioner, Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi. Mkhwanazi said the two suspects had been arrested and the car allegedly used in the crime was also found. Four people died in the incident. Mfanafuthi Dlamini (22), whose brother Nkosinathi Mdladla (32) was also killed in the shooting, said he was glad the suspects had been caught. “Now we will know who killed the victims and why. These suspects must get a harsh sentence for what they did,” he said. Spokesman of the African National Congress (ANC) in the Moses Mabhida region, Njabulo Mtolo, said they welcomed the swift action of the police. He said from the reports received, in less than 48 hours, the police were also able to locate the car allegedly used in the crime and that more arrests were imminent. “There should be no stone left unturned in the efforts to apprehend every perpetrator involved in this barbarous act. This will undoubtedly contribute to restoring public confidence and trust in the work of our police,” he said. He sent condolences to the bereaved families and wished those admitted in hospital a speedy recovery. While people were enjoying themselves at the tavern on Saturday night, two men jumped out of the car, entered the tavern and fired random shots at the patrons. A total of 12 people were shot. Two people were declared dead at the scene and the other two died in hospital. The others were rushed to hospital after they sustained injuries. The suspects fled the scene after the incident. Charges of murder and attempted murder were opened for investigation at Plessislaer cop shop. The docket was transferred to the Provincial Organised Crime Unit, who took over the investigation.