FROM 9 to 18 July last year, Mzansi was hit with the most violent civil unrest since the inception of democracy, leaving over 354 people dead in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Justice, crime prevention and security cluster updated the country through a media briefing on the interventions of the July 2021 unrest in Tshwane on Friday, 8 July. Defence Minister Thandi Modise said over 2 435 cases were on the court roll, with over 50 finalised with a guilty verdict. She said more than 3 300 had been finalised through non-prosecution, with some being withdrawn. “Over 2 900 cases were closed as undetected or unfounded. There are 19 cases from which the directorate for priority crime investigation is probing, eight in relation to people who were arrested on suspicion of incitement to commit public violence,” she said. Modise added that the investigation of about 2 200 cases was concluded pending a decision on the viability of the prosecution. “A number of dockets have been referred to the directors of public prosecutions for a decision, further guidance and direction on the matter.” She said in Phoenix outside Durban, 164 cases were investigated, and 120 were still under investigation with a total arrest of 69 suspects arrested for various crimes. And 36 of them were arrested for their alleged roles in the murder of 35 people and 31 for attempted murder. Modise said the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development initiated several interventions aimed at facilitating healing and reconciliation in Phoenix. Speaking on the part of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) in the unrest, Modise said they stood ready to support law enforcement agencies to deal with any threats to the security and stability of the country. She said the SANDF would continue to be on standby, in support of the police, to protect all national key points and economic corridors from any disruption or blockages. “This is in line with the constitutional mandate of the SANDF to intervene when called upon by any state institution to ensure that the safety of our people and infrastructure is protected,” she added.