THE African Transformation Movement has asked Ipid to investigate the conduct of the police following President Cyril Ramamphosa’s Phala Phala farm saga. Addressing the media on Monday, 11 July outside Ipid’s office in Tshwane, ATM president Vuyolwethu Zungula said they believed the police commissioners, both the current and the former, knew about this alleged criminality. “They report to their commander-in-chief, the president of the country and the president confirmed he knew what was happening,” he said. Zungula said the evidence that the party has submitted is the sworn affidavit of Arthur Fraser, the statement from the Namibian police general, and the publications from various media houses and that this was the evidence needed to kick-start the investigations. “We came here as a political party represented in Parliament to present a sworn statement to Ipid on the allegations levelled against police officers about the Phala Phala saga. “We know a crime took take place at Phala Phala and that it was concealed not only by President Ramaphosa, but also by police officers tasked with protecting the president.” He said it was the duty of MPs to ensure Ipid did its work and their statement listed many violations which have been confirmed by its representative. “Not reporting a crime, bribery of suspects to conceal the events at Phala Phala, so the statement and our engagements were very fruitful and we can confidently affirm that investigations will continue,” he said. Zungula also stressed that Advocate Malesela Teffo, the defence advocate for four suspects in the Meyiwa case, was the legal advisor in this matter. Zungula said they will be putting pressure on Ipid to ensure there were no delaying tactics. Ipid spokeswoman Lizzy Suping confirmed they had a formal statement from the ATM regarding their request to investigate the police conduct on the president’s farm. “The outcome of today’s meeting will assist the Ipid executive director to make a determination on whether they can fully investigate this matter in accordance with the prescribed laws,” she said.