BLOGGER Jabu Brown was forced to spend the whole night outside Disoufeng Pub in Soweto on Sunday, 3 July. This is because he was waiting to get his car back from radio personality, Mo G. HE LOANED IT TO THE RADIO DJ, BUT THEN HE ALLEGEDLY DIDN’T GIVE IT BACK! Jabu claimed he gave Mo G his BMW X3 on Wednesday, 29 June and he was meant to return it on Friday, 1 July. Jabu said this was after they had agreed Mo G would feature Jabu on his show on Metro FM for a car feature segment. Jabu said he thought in order to make the show more informative, he would lend Mo G the car so he could test drive it for a day or so. But when Friday came, Mo G was allegedly nowhere to be found. He claimed he tried to call and text him from Friday until Saturday, 2 July, but he did not respond. Jabu said he checked Mo G’s gig guide and found he’d be playing at Disoufeng on Sunday, 3 July. “I went there with my brother and we saw the car. I walked up to Mo G at the DJ box and asked him to give me my car keys. He refused. I created a commotion and he called the security on me,” he claimed. Jabu said they parked next to the car, waiting for Mo G to finish playing. “Once he was done, he came out with security and acted as if we are harassing him. He called a meter taxi and left with the car keys.” Jabu said they had to camp there hoping he’d return. “Around 2am Mo G came back with some guy in another car. He went to my car and got in. I was able to block him. “He screamed to some guys saying we’re trying to hijack him.” Daily Sun has video footage showing the brothers trying to get the car back. Videos of the incident were shared on social media. “The police came and we explained. They searched him and found the car keys in his back pocket,” Jabu said. “He is lucky I didn’t open a case against him. He’s unreliable. I’m no longer interested in working with him.” Last year, the People’s Paper ran the story of Siphiwe Motha, a DJ on Power FM, who claimed he had loaned Mo G DJ equipment worth R50 000, which Mo G had never returned and has had for over four years. Siphiwe eventually sent Mo G a lawyers’ letter. Contacted for comment, Simphiwe said he has been robbed by Mo G, who has taken food from his children’s mouths. “He has still not returned by equipment since 2017 and I have given him to the courts to deal with him.” The SunTeam tried to get hold of Mo G for comment, but he couldn’t be reached.