POLICE Minister Bheki Cele is expected to visit the families of the 15 people whose lives perished following a deadly shooting incident at Mdlalose’s tavern in Orlando East over the weekend. Cele is expected to be accompanied by the police’s national commissioner Fanie Masemola and provincial commissioner Elias Mawela. In the early hours of Sunday morning, 10 July, patrons at Mdlalose’s tavern at Lahlumlenze, were showered with a hail of bullets. The senseless shooting killed 13 patrons on the spot, while two more died in hospital. Meanwhile, condolences are continuing to follow from all corners of Mzansi for the families of the deceased. ALSO READ | PICS: How my baby daddy died at tavern! ANC Women’s League’s National Coordinator Maropene Ramokgopa said: “We send our deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives and wish those who are hospitalised a speedy recovery. Bars and liquor stores are supposed to be safe social recreational spaces and not dangerous spaces where lives are lost. We send strength to the families, and we hope they get the much-needed answers they deserve.” Ramokgopa added: “We cannot continue to live in illegal firearm-infested communities. We, therefore, call for a gun-free society and for the government to put in stricter regulations with regards to firearm possession. These guns must be silenced, and we appeal to community organisations and patriotic citizens to report such cases in their respective communities. The full might of the law must catch up with the trigger-happy criminals. ActionSA Leader Herman Mashaba said: “Proliferation of guns has reached an unacceptably high and alarming level in South Africa, with our Firearms Control Act barely addressing the problem due to President of the country having interest in the survival of the ANC over the safety of the South African people. “ActionSA stands firm in the belief that the ANC is responsible for the tragedy that befell those victims and the victims of other crimes that occur daily in this country. “We call upon the authorities within the criminal justice system to act swiftly and urgently in apprehending the perpetrators of these heinous crimes and ensuring that the families of the wounded and the deceased receive.”