THE fighting of friends over stolen items has left more than 48 families homeless. This after a fire started during the fight on Monday, 11 July, at an old hospital building in Vereeniging, Vaal. Lindiwe Nhlapho (34) told Daily Sun that smash-and-grab thieves hid in their friend’s room after allegedly stealing phones, wallets and groceries in the CBD. The hostel, that houses more than 48 families, is not far from the CBD. Lindiwe said while she was sleeping, she heard her neighbour fighting with his friend over the stolen items. Moments later, she saw smoke in her room. “I went outside to inspect the cause and my neighbour told me that his friend had set his room alight as he was fighting and demanding his cut of the items. “While talking with the man, the entire building caught fire and it was too late for me and other people to save our belongings as it was too strong,” she said. Lindiwe said the building could have been saved had Emfuleni firefighters arrived on time as the fire station was a street away from the hostel. She said the fire and rescue team told residents that their trucks did not have water and were waiting for Midvaal Local Municipality firefighters to help. However, Emfuleni Local Municipality spokesman Makhosonke Sangweni denied the allegations. “It was too late for the rescue team to fight the strong blaze that destroyed the hostel,” he said. He said that the disaster management team gave affected residents tents, mattresses and blankets while the Department of Social Development would provide food. Democratic Alliance Ward Councillor Prudence Hlanyane said a few residents were temporarily housed at a community hall while plans were being made. “Many were not placed because they refused for their fingerprints to be taken.” Captain Fikile Funda said cops rescued a man from angry residents after he was accused of being responsible for the fire. “The cause is still unknown as police are waiting for a report from the fire department to start investigations,” said Funda.