ANDILE Mpisane’s wife, Tammia, has been roped in as the deputy chairlady of the Royal AM’s womens team. The news was confirmed by club president Shauwn “MaMkhize” Mkhize in the press conference at the Royal Ranch in Pietermaritzburg on Friday where she announced the Royal AM women’s team, Royal AM Ladies FC, after buying the status of Bloemfontein Celtic Ladies team. The businesswoman said the South African Football Association (Safa) has approved the sale of the franchise, change of name and home ground venue of the existing team. The club, according to MaMkhize, will be playing their games at Mpumalanga Stadium in Hammarsdale. “I want to announce that Tammia Mpisane is going to be deputy chairlady of the women’s team,” said MaMkhize. “As I’m creating the legacy for my kid, I think Andile brought us into this thing called football whereby we found ourselves so attached. I think this thing called football is toxic. Once you get into it you can’t come out. “The whole family is there, my sister is there, we are in this thing. I want to categorically say this is not for us as a family, but it’s for the whole country that believes in the game of football.” KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) will now boast two teams participating in the Hollywoodbets Super League, namely the Durban Ladies FC. MaMkhize also announced a new partnership with World Sports Betting, who welcomed this big step in making sure that women’s football thrives in SA. However, they will be working with MaMkhize when it comes to her CSI project. MaMkhize is building houses around Durban, with 10 set to be handed out soon in Umlazi. “Supporters can look forward to great promotions and campaigns in the months to come,” said Warren Tannous, CEO, World Sports Betting. Royal AM Ladies FC, currently fifth on the log in the HollywoodBets Super League, will play its remaining matches as Royal AM Ladies FC. It will be led by the same, strong technical team and Head coach Thato Haraba. “It’s great to see how women’s football has started to reach the radar of many South Africans,” said MaMkhize. “Now is the time to put the spotlight on women’s football. The success of Banyana Banyana is a prime example of why we need to make even more strides in advancing its professionalism not only in SA but on the African continent.” . MaMkhize said she would like to wish Banyana Banyana “all the best as they aim to clinch the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations title for the first time.” Banyana face Morocco in the Wafcon final on Saturday (10pm).