A WAR seems to be brewing between RDP homeowners and a group of people who claim the houses belong to them. And, things got so bad that the group attacked the homeowners on Wednesday, 27 July. Some residents were allegedly poured with petrol while others were assaulted as the group wanted them out of the houses. So on Thursday, 28 July, fearful residents who were recently allocated the houses in Madiba Park in Springs removed their goods to go back to Everest squatter camp. They said the Ekurhuleni Municipality and police were not protecting them.  Municipality spokesman Zweli Dlamini promised that Metro cops would be deployed, but no one pitched. Only Springs cops showed up. However, residents said they knew why the Metro cops didn’t pitch. “It’s because they are involved in this. They want these houses and yet earn salaries,” said a resident.  They said the ringleader, only known as Mkhize, told them they were given the houses by officials. “Mkhize mentioned two names, Nhlanhla and Lerato. We want the municipality to investigate them.” ALSO READ | PICS: BLACK GLOVE izinkabi strike men in a Benz The SunTeam visited some houses and noticed blood spots on the floor and walls of one of them. This is the second attack in a month. Residents said attackers pointed guns at them, then damaged their houses and furniture with axes and pangas. “They even threatened to burn us inside our houses.”  The new RDP houses are not far from Springs Police Station. But residents claimed cops didn’t help them. ALSO READ | Cops on hunt for ATMs bombers! “If the police fear them, then where is our protection?” The said they received letters when the houses were allocated in May. And attackers took them. “We are not armed and the attackers have weapons. We have nothing.”  Sergeant Themba Tshabalala urged residents to open a case. Dlamini said: “The Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department made some arrests and will continue to monitor the situation. Those attacked are encouraged to report this to the SAPS, and allegations on ‘officials’ will be looked at.”