10:51 Between the 8th and 17th of July 2021, South Africa experienced violent civil unrest, mainly in parts of KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. The unrest was characterized by social media mobilisation, which resulted in looting, property destruction, and economic disruption.   11:02 IT was supposed to be a peaceful march on Wednesday, 6 October by National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) members. But it suddenly turned violent. Protesters targeted a liquor store, but found security guards waiting for them. All hell broke loose when the protesters tried to gain entry into the store, and guards fought to push them out. The protesters then threw stones at the guards, who retaliated by shooting at them and one of the protesters was shot in the stomach. Constable Justice Ramaube of Boksburg North Police Station said the man was rushed to hospital for medical treatment. He said a security guard was also hurt after being assaulted by the protesters. For more on the story click HERE 12:43 LOOTING RAID AT HOSTEL! AN OPERATION to recover looted goods from a hostel took a strange turn when dwellers complained that some of their belongings and money were stolen. Joint Operation Prosper in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni on Tuesday, saw the police, backed by soldiers, breaking down doors of units at Nguni Hostel with no occupants. In Block A, police broke down the door where a man was asleep. “I heard people speaking outside and then suddenly my door flew, even though it was locked,” For more on the story click HERE 12:46 Looting: Claims of up to R20 billion expected! The SA Special Risk Insurance Association (Sasria) expects that total claims following the unrest in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng last month could reach R19 billion to R20 billion. This is almost three times as much as Sasria's ballpark estimation of R7 billion in the immediate aftermath of the unrest. Sasria covers losses or damage to insured property as a result of social unrest and rioting. It was formed in 1979 in the aftermath of the 1976 uprisings under the apartheid regime, which prompted an avalanche of insurance claims.   6h ago 6h ago #SouthAfrica aftermath of #ProZumaSupports Riots & Looting Fri, Jul 16, 2021 The queue for food today at Ulundi, KZN pic.twitter.com/OvHAPv9A1f 6h ago This week will mark the first anniversary of the July unrest that swept through KZN & Gauteng.The unrest sparked by the imprisonment of the former president Jacob Zuma, for contempt of court, caused widespread looting of shops and businesses.#NewsUpdate@LivePretoria pic.twitter.com/dWmVq3NaTg 6h ago July 11, 2021: Looting in Durban, KZNJuly 06, 2022: Symbolic funeral in ECSpillion. pic.twitter.com/E0kq8UuhSa