JERRY MNISI is not having peace in his upmarket house because of kak. He said he’s been living with kak for almost 12 months and is not getting help from the municipality. Jerry from Moreleta Park in Tshwane said the blocked drainage is also affecting his children. He said he noticed the problem last year September and thought it was a mere blocked drain. He told Daily Sun that he spent almost R40 000 hiring private companies to unblock the drainage, but they are failing. His hope now is in the hands of City of Tshwane but says he is struggling to get them to come and fix the problem.  “Someone has tempered with my drainage pipe outside my house where it flows to the main drainage system. Unfortunately, my neighbors are very arrogant when I try to raise the matter to them,” he said. He said one neighbor told him in the beginning of the year that he doesnt want any one from the municipality inside his yard. Mnisi said he is always buying chemicals to fight the smell and bacteria and that that alone is emptying his pockets.  He says he has spent atleast R20 000 buying chemicals and says he can’t continue waisting money on something that is not going away. “I am angry with the City of Tshwane because they are not helping me to unblock the drainage,” he said. He said he even reported the matter to the local councilor who even said they are waiting for a letter from the City of Tshwane’s legal department so that they can get access to the neighbor’s house as his drainage pipe is flowing into his yard. The father of two children says his children are now restricted to play around the house because of the stinking and kak at the back of the yard. “I am no longer enjoy living in my beautiful house. I have second thoughts of selling the house. I really love my house, but the situation is terrible.” He said Mnisi said he is paying almost R20 000 bond every month but the kak has taken away his happiness in the yard. Mnisi alleges that the City of Tshwane is no longer picking up his calls. City of Tshwane spokesman, Sipho Stuurman said: “The City is aware and attending to the matter.”