KHUTSO Manamela (28) didn’t take losing his girlfriend lightly. The 28-year-old from Atteridgeville killed Vafentse Nyeufane in June 2018, who was the current boyfriend of his ex-girlfriend. On Friday 01 July, the Pretoria Regional Court sentenced Manamela to one life term, for the murder of his Nyeufane. He was convicted of premeditated murder by Magistrate Nozipho Gcawu, on 17 March 2022. NPA Regional Spokesperson Lumka Mahanjana said in a statement, “On 10 June 2018, the deceased, Nyeufane had gone to assist his elderly neighbour to run errands for her, Manamela hid a wooded bet by the neighbour’s yard and followed the deceased, as he returned, Manamela took the bet and assaulted the deceased. “The neighbour saw what happened and called for help, the deceased was taken to the nearest hospital where he passed on due to injuries sustained.” Manamela was then arrested on 13 June 2018, in Atteridgeville after a community member sported him on the street. He has been in custody since his arrest after the NPA successfully opposed his bail application. Mahajana said, “In court, he pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against him. The older brother of the deceased told the court that Manamela had repeatedly assaulted the deceased for 7 months and they tried to resolve the issue, however, he promised to make peace, but in the end, he killed his brother.” She said the Prosecutor, Dru Ramsamy told the court that, Manamela had three previous convictions related to violent crimes, where he was given a suspended sentence due to his tender age. Furthermore, she said, Manamela showed no remorse for his action, when he was being assessed by the probation officers, he showed blatant ignorance and still denied his offence, while there was overwhelming evidence against him. “Therefore, a life sentence is the only suitable sentence, she added. During the sentencing Magistrate Gcawu, agreed with the state that Manamela showed no remorse for his offence, and considering his history of violence and brushing with the law, it does not warrant deviation from the minimum prescribed sentence. “The National Prosecuting Authority welcomes the sentence, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Adv. Sibongile Mzinyathi thanks the outstanding work done by the investigating officer Sgt Tomas Mafana, of Attreridgeville Police Station, that led to the conviction and sentencing of this case. He said he hope this sentence will send a message that violent crimes will not be tolerated, but will be prosecuted.”