THE High Court sitting in Benoni delivered a hefty sentence for a 41-year-old father, from Benoni Ekurhuleni. He was sentenced to two life terms, and 83 rape years’ imprisonment on Friday, 01 July 2022. He is charged with two counts of rape, two counts of using a child for pornography, three counts of creation or production of child pornography, 407 counts of possession of child pornography, 2 counts of attempted compelled rape, 2 counts of sexual assault, compelled rape, compelled sexual assault, exposure or display of child pornography to children, 2 counts of compelling or causing a child to witness sexual assault and 2 counts of compelling or causing a child to witness the sexual act. NPA Regional Spokesperson Lumka Mahanjana said the judge ordered that the sentence run concurrently. Mahajana said in a statement, “The father pleaded guilty, to all 426 charges preferred against him and handed in his guilty plea. He committed these offences against his two stepsons and daughter between 2012 and 2021. “At the time of the incidents, the boys were between the ages of 6 to14, and the daughter was 7 months old until she was 8 years old.” The offences are said to have taken place in their home when the mother of the children was at work and the children were left in his care. When at work, he would often ask the minor boys to take pictures of their sister’s private parts and send them to him for his pleasure. Mahajana said, “The man was arrested in February 2021, when one of the children confided in one of the family relatives and the matter was then reported to the police. The rest of the children then later opened up about their experiences as well. The man has been in custody since his arrest.” Prosecutor Adv. Jeffery Nethononda, said Mr X had no regard for older children’s rights as enshrined in the constitution, he said fatherhood is a calling, and Mr X abused that position of power. The degradation of children through child pornography is serious harm which impairs their dignity and devalues their worth. Moreover, the children will be traumatized for life because of what Mr X put them through. Therefore, there were no compelling circumstances advanced by Mr X to deviate from the prescribed minimum sentence.