A BODY believed to be of Michael Sithole was found at Dilopye Village in Hamanskraal, north of Tshwane, on Wednesday, 13 July. It is suspected that the car Michael was travelling in, which was set alight, was the getaway car for him and his two accomplices. Earlier on, residents informed the SunTeam about a house robbery where three people were caught stealing. “Two escaped with a plasma TV after firing shots and the community managed to apprehend one suspect,” said a resident. Michael’s body was later found lying next to the car with his hands tied and he had injuries on the lower and upper body. Speaking to Daily Sun, Hanyane Kgoale (54), who said he was Michael’s guardian, said they suspect the community was behind his murder. He said they were struggling to understand if Michael was part of the robbery or not. “Michael doesn’t have parents and when I met him several years ago in Marokolong, I decided to take him under my wing. “We were both involved in community work taking part in fighting crime. “I fail to understand what could have led to his death,” said Hanyane. “He was a very helpful person and I relied on him for a lot of things. He lived on one of my stands and was not only helping me, but he helped members of the community with anything they needed.” He said Michael’s death was a great loss to his family. “When I got the call about the incident, I had to gather strength to inform his uncle,” he said. Michael’s uncle, Happy Sithole (62), said he couldn’t believe it when he heard the sad news about Michael’s death and they are yet to identify the body at the mortuary. “His mother died while he was still young and hHe was not a problem child. I wish the community could have called the police before assaulting him to death,so that he could explain to us what happened and why he was caught at the scene of a crime” said Happy. “I really don’t have words because this is a sad situation, especially the way he died. Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said the police were investigating a case of murder after the body of unknown man age between 30 and 40 was found at Dilopye Village on Wednesday morning. “The police received information about a Nissan NP200 that was set alight and a man who was lying next to the car. Police found the body of a man with his hands tied and with injuries on the lower and upper body,” said Masondo. He said rocks and sticks which were suspected to have been used to assault the deceased were found next to the body. Masondo said anyone with information is asked to call CrimeStop on 08600 10111. He added that community members should refrain from taking the law into their own hands.