POLICE in Standerton,
Mpumalanga made a breakthrough in a murder case. This was after the body
of a 29-year-old man, identified by his family as Mqobi Surprise Mkhwanazi, was
found in the Vaal River near Standerton on, Thursday 21 July 2022. He was reported missing
on Tuesday, 19 July 2022. So far three male suspects, aged between 23 and 31
have been arrested whilst another 21-year-old man was detained for questioning. Police spokesman
Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said, According to the information, since the man went
missing, members of the public then came forward with information regarding the
man's disappearance. “This came in handy for
the detectives, as the Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga,
Lieutenant General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela would constantly encourage the
public to take part in preventing or resolving crime. The information was
shared with police, indicating that Mkhwanazi did not just vanish into thin air
but was allegedly kidnapped by some suspects who were driving in a white BMW. “The details were
followed by the investigators who cornered two suspects at Standerton
yesterday, 21 July 2022. During the investigation, police learned that the
victim was shot and killed. The astute members were led through information
obtained from suspects to the body of Mkhwanazi in the Vaal River near
Standerton.” Mohlala said the man’s
lifeless body was partially burnt when he was retrieved from the river. READ: Three bust digging up graves! “The third suspect was
nabbed at Sakhile on the same day (21 July 2022). He was reportedly found in
possession of a firearm and ammunition. The firearm is suspected to be a murder
weapon. Two vehicles, a white BMW as well as a white Mazda double cab bakkie
were further confiscated by police as they were allegedly used during the
commission of a crime.” He said the suspects are
due to appear at the Standerton Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 25 July 2022
facing murder, kidnapping, defeating the ends of justice as well as possession
of unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Police cannot rule out the possibility of
adding more charges as the investigation continues. The motive for the
killing has not yet been established or known at this stage.   