MPUMALANGA police have launched a manhunt for suspects after three intruders gunned down a field ranger and injured his wife, who’s currently in hospital. The horrific incident happened at the couple’s home in Edinburgh outside Thulamahashe near Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga, on Tuesday, 26 July at around 7pm. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala confirmed that the 49-year-old man, identified as Phindani Mzimba, was a field ranger at Timbavati Game Lodge in Limpopo. “He succumbed to his injuries thereafter, meanwhile his wife is fighting for her life after being admitted to hospital shortly after the shooting. However, the motive for the killing is not known at this stage, and it will form part of the investigation by the team that has been set up to probe this incident,” he said. He said three men arrived at their home at around 7pm, where they pretended to be asking for water as their vehicle had a problem. “As the child was busy assisting them, it is said that the men abruptly approached the man of the house who was busy in his car and allegedly shot him several times. It is further alleged that his wife screamed after witnessing what happened to her husband, then she too was shot by the suspects in the stomach. ALSO READ | Mystery flames destroy house and RAV4 “The three suspects are said to have then fled the scene in a white VW Polo without taking anything from the house. The two victims were taken to a nearby hospital where upon arrival, the man unfortunately succumbed to his injuries,” he said. Mpumalanga police commissioner Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Manamela was disturbed by the sad news and called for the swift arrest of the suspects. “We strongly condemn this barbaric act and we are adamant that it is just a matter of time before we arrest the perpetrators and put them behind bars, knowing very well that our community will come on board as they always support us in our endeavour to fight crime. Those suspects should be hunted down and be brought to book,” she said. A case of murder has been opened with additional charges of attempted murder. PICS: Mob kills Tshepang (15) for 'stealing' food Anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects can contact Mhala police on 013 773 0331, Detective Sergeant Collen Nyalungu on 076 936 7222, call CrimeStop on 08600 10111 or send information via the MYSAPS app. All received information will be treated as confidential and callers may opt to remain anonymous.