CAR dealership killer Tshiamo Confidence Sekgoro (40) was sentenced to life imprisonment by the High Court of South Africa; North West Division, sitting at the Klerksdorp Regional Court on Friday 1 July 2022. Sekgoro was found guilty of one count of murder and two counts of attempted murder following a shooting incident at a car dealership in Klerksdorp in 2019. North West Police Spokeswoman Colonel Adéle Myburgh said, "It was reported at the time of the incident that Sekgoro bought a car at Speedy Car Sales in April 2019, in Klerksdorp, then took it to Mafikeng. He, later on, complained about some defaults on the car, to which the dealership took it back for inspection in Klerksdorp at a cost of approximately R4700." “The inspection results however showed no defaults to the car as it was serviced before. The dealership ordered Sekgoro to pay for the costs of transportation before they could release his car back to him. He then approached the High Court of South Africa; North West Division on an urgent basis for his car to be given back to him. However, his application was dismissed and the matter was struck off the roll.” Mayburgh said according to reports the accused went to the dealership on Tuesday, 11 November 2019, to collect his motor vehicle but the sales manager, Mehboob Soomra (36), told him to pay for the transportation costs after consulting with the dealership attorney. “He was then told to wait for Mohamed Dangor, (deceased, aged 32) who was the son of the dealership owner, to further engage on the matter. Sekgoro then went to the office of the deceased, who was in the company of Yusuf Ally (61). After an argument that ensued, Sekgoro shot at the pair, then chased after Soomra in the showroom and fired shots at him. “Dangor was declared dead on the scene. Soomra and Ally were rushed to a nearby hospital for medical care. Consequent to the incident, Sekgoro handed himself over to the police and was later granted R10 000 bail, which was revoked after he was found guilty on all three charges on Tuesday, 22 February 2022." He was sentenced as follows: Count 1: Murder: Life Imprisonment Count 2: Attempted Murder: Five Years imprisonment Count 3: Attempted murder: Five Years imprisonment The Sentence in counts 2 and 3 will run concurrently with the sentence of count 1. Furthermore, Sekgoro was also declared unfit to possess a firearm in terms of Section 103 of the Firearms Control Act, 2000 (Act No. 60 of 2000). The Provincial Commissioner thanked all role-players involved for working tirelessly to ensure that the convict is sentenced. He pointed out that the sentence will send a clear message that those who commit crime, will do time in jail.