ANC KZN chairperson candidate, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, is not ruling out merger talks with any faction but is adamant that any negotiations should not compromise her position for the provincial top job. Dube-Ncube’s chief lobbyist, Wiseman Ngobese, told Daily Sun yesterday, 20 July, that her camp continues to engage other branches across the province and candidates who have been nominated. This comes as the province is set to kick off its elective conference on Friday, 22 July, to elect leadership in a three-horse race that has businessman Sandile Zungu, Premier Sihle Zikalala and Dube-Ncube. Speculation is rife that with Zungu and Dube-Ncube, both fishing from the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) pond, have effectively split the vote and this has threatened Zikalala’s bid for a second term. It’s also said Zungu was willing to step back and throw his support behind Dube-Ncube but she had dilly-dallied, which prompted the businessman to throw his hat in the ring. Ngobese couldn’t reveal exactly which nominated leader the camp was talking about, but it is unlikely to be Zikalala’s camp as he’s widely seen as President Cyril Ramaphosa’s ally. “We are meeting with leaders who have been nominated and we’re comfortable with the discussions that are currently underway. “This conference is about the branches who must exercise their constitutional rights to elect leaders of their choice. “It is the branches that must determine who must serve with Cde Nomusa Dube-Ncube as the chair,” said Ngobese. He said most of the branches the camp was in talks with collectively believed that she should be the chairperson. Ngobese boasted that their camp had solid support from branches in Mzala Nxumalo, Far North, eMalahleni, Josia Gumede, Harry Gwala, Lower South Coast, General Gizenga, Musa Dladla, Moses Mabhida, and different zones across eThekwini. “Branches continue to point out that Cde Nomusa Dube-Ncube appeals to traditional leaders, religious leaders, business community and academics, who are all critical stakeholders,” he said. Like all leaders in the province contesting for the position, Ngobese confirmed that Dube-Ncube had met former president Jacob Zuma. “Cde Nomusa does not believe that it is necessary to use the former president for any form of public relations gimmicks. “But she respects him as a leader who is valuable in terms of his experience and an elder who contributed towards the building of this province and the country,” he said. Zungu was not immediately available for comment but in a television interview yesterday afternoon, he confirmed that he had the backing of Zuma. “Yes, I’ve met the former president as I have met him a couple of times in the past and we spoke about my being requested to serve. “I wanted to seek his opinion as much as I wanted to seek the opinion of the former premier Willie Mchunu. “Their opinions (that of Zuma and Mchunu) were that: ‘Sandile, we need you in this province. We think you can make a huge difference’. Something which was quite flattering,” he told a TV news channel. Party provincial spokesman, Nhlakanipho Ntombela, told journalists that the registration of delegates was well underway and they expected to be done by today and officially start the conference tomorrow as scheduled. He said the province has already received the verified report from Luthuli House, and they didn’t anticipate the conference being derailed by credential deliberations like in other provinces.