A 49-YEAR-OLD Nyanga father burnt to death with his two kids in a mysterious shack fire on Saturday night, 2 July. The dead kids were seven and 12 years old. Neighbour Sizwe Nonisi (38) said he tried to kill the fire, but it was too quick and strong. It took less than two minutes for the three-roomed shack to be eaten up by flames. “Not even petrol fire is that fast. I was left helpless and before I could do anything, the shack was already down with people inside. It was not a normal fire,” said Nonisi. He said he was hurt that he could not help and witnessed the deaths of his neighbour and kids.  “These kids played with my children. They grew up before my eyes, so it’s difficult to accept that they died just like that. “The other thing I noticed is that they didn’t scream when the shack was on fire. I’m not sure whether they were already dead when the fire started.” When the SunTeam arrived in the area, residents were still in shock. The dead kids’ aunt refused to talk to Daily Sun, saying they were still traumatised. She, however, confirmed that the wife of the dead man was still on her way from the Eastern Cape. The fire affected other shacks. City of Cape Town’s Fire and Rescue spokesman Jermaine Carelse said: “Crews from Gugulethu, Landsdowne and Mitchells Plain were on the scene with two fire engines and a water tanker.Firefighters managed to extinguish the blaze just after midnight. Four informal structures were completely destroyed and a man and two male minors sustained fatal burn wounds.” Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi confirmed the deaths. “The Nyanga police attended a scene on Saturday, 2 July. Upon arrival in Maplangeni Crescent at about 11.30pm, they found the fire and rescue team on the scene, who were busy extinguishing the fire that damaged shacks. “Upon inspection, they found the bodies of three males who sustained fatal burn wounds.victims aged 49, 12 and seven were declared dead on the scene by the medical personnel. “Nyanga police registered an inquest for investigation,” he said. A 49-YEAR-OLD Nyanga father burnt to death with his two kids in a mysterious shack fire on Saturday night, 2 July. The dead children were seven and 12 years old. Neighbour Sizwe Nonisi (38) tried to kill the fire but it was too quick and strong. It took less than two minutes for the three-roomed shack to be eaten up by flames. “Not even petrol fire is that fast. I was left helpless and before I could do anything, the shack was already down with people inside. It was not a normal fire,” said Nonisi. He said he was hurt that he could not help and witnessed the deaths of his neighbour and kids. “These kids played with my children. They grew up before my eyes, so it’s difficult to accept that they died just like that. “The other thing I noticed is that they didn’t scream when the shack was on fire. I’m not sure whether they were already dead when the fire started,” Nonisi added. When the SunTeam arrived in the area, residents were still in shock. The dead kids’ aunt refused to talk to Daily Sun. She said the matter had not been discussed as a family and they were still traumatised. She, however, confirmed that her sister, the wife of the dead man, was still on her way from the Eastern Cape. The fire affected other shacks. City of Cape Town’s Fire and Rescue spokesman Jermaine Carelse confirmed the incident. “Crews from Gugulethu, Landsdowne and Mitchells Plain were on the scene with two fire engines and a water tanker. “Firefighters managed to extinguish the blaze just after midnight. Four informal structures were completely destroyed and a man and two male minors sustained fatal burn wounds,” said Carelse. Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi confirmed the incident. “Nyanga police attended a scene on Saturday, 2 July. Upon arrival in Maplangeni Crescent at about 11.30pm, they found the fire and rescue team on the scene, who were busy extinguishing the fire that damaged shacks. “Upon inspection, they found the bodies of three males who sustained fatal burn wounds. The victims aged 49, 12 and seven were declared deceased on the scene by the medical personnel. Nyanga police registered an inquest for further investigation,” he said.