KING MISUZULU has rejected claims that he abuses drugs and alcohol, and has committed incest. The angry king said that he drinks alcohol but that doesn’t make him a drunkard. “THE FACT THAT I CONSUME ALCOHOL DOESN’T MAKE ME ISIDAKWA!” HE SAID. King Misuzulu has dismissed the claims made by his uncle Prince Mbonisi Zulu. He said although he did consume alcohol, he was not a problem drinker. “Drinking does not disqualify me from being the king,” he said. He also denied allegations of incest with his sisters and denied having a child with his aunt’s daughter from the Swati royal family. The king wants the North Gauteng High Court in Tshwane to dismiss the allegations of Prince Mbonisi as senseless. The king was responding to claims made by his uncle in a court application to halt his coronation, scheduled for August, and set aside the recognition of him as king. Early in July, Prince Mbonisi went to court, claiming King Misuzulu was unfit for the throne. He claimed the matter was urgent and asked for a hearing on 26 July, which has not yet been granted. Court papers filed by the king read: The allegations have been made maliciously and vexatiously to scandalise me. “They are also irrelevant,” he said. “The fact that I consume alcohol doesn’t disqualify me to be king under the Khoi San Act and under the Zulu customary law. “The application is baseless and scandalous and should be dismissed with costs.” Zulu Prime Minister Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi also filed a response, claiming that Prince Mbonisi was trying to pre-empt the Supreme Court of Appeal, which is yet to hear an appeal of the Pietermaritzburg High Court’s dismissal of a similar application. He reminded Prince Mbonisi that he also failed in his attempt to interdict King Misuzulu from addressing the commemoration of the Battle of Isandlwana in Nquthu in January. ALSO READ | Cold dead gogo ngiqokiseni! When Daily Sun asked Prince Thulani Zulu, King Misuzulu’s spokesman, about whether there were paternity tests done as the king was denying having a child with the daughter of his mother’s sister from Eswatini, he said there was no need for tests. “Because we are saying it never happened. “The king doesn’t have a child with his cousin. ALSO READ | HIPPO attack horror “We don’t know where this claim comes from and whoever is claiming it, can’t prove it,” said Prince Thulani. He said he wouldn’t say much about the matter as it was still in court. “Maybe those who are claiming it, will prove that by providing DNA proof in court,” he said. Prince Mbonisi said he would answer questions during a media briefing to be held in Durban on Thursday, 21 July. 