A FAMILY from Samora Machel in Cape Town has been left traumatised after their son was murdered outside their home on Thursday, 28 July. Someleze “China” Ndleleni (20) went out of the house to meet his two friends but within a few minutes, his father heard gunshots. When he went out to check, he found him and his friend lying in a pool of blood. Their other friend, who’s still fighting for his life, was taken to hospital. “I am terrified. His death came just after his uncle was shot and killed around here two days earlier. “The painful thing is that he was shot in broad daylight. People actually saw it happening,” said the father, Zadeki Maqwara (57). Resident Sibongile Kwangi said there have been shootings in their kasi for the past two weeks, and young men were being killed. “We are now living in fear of these attacks because you don’t know what’s going to happen next. China’s death shocked us all,” he said. The mother of the boy who survived the shooting said her son will not come back to her house. “I’m glad that he survived but I’m worried that those who wanted him dead might come back to finish him off,” he said. A community leader, who didn’t want to be named, said the young men who are being killed are suspected to have stolen from a spaza owner in Samora Machel. “I’ve heard that the people who are killing these kids are those who are paid to protect spaza shops. “It’s alleged that they stole from one of the shops and now these people are tracking them one by one,” he said. Warrant Officer Joseph Swartbooi confirmed that they were investigating a double murder. “The circumstances surrounding a shooting incident in Samora Machel are being investigated. Samora Machel police attended a complaint on Thursday, 28 July. “Upon arrival on the scene at Kosovo informal settlement at about 5.30pm, they found the bodies of two victims who sustained gunshot wounds to their bodies. The victims were declared dead on the scene by medical personnel. “The motive for the attack is unknown. The unknown suspect/s are yet to be arrested,” said Swartbooi.