PREMIER Soccer League (PSL) chairman Irvin Khoza has issued some advice to South African coaches struggling to meet the Confederation of African Football’s (Caf) licensing requirements. In recent seasons, some Mzansi coaches have been declared unfit to be on the bench and lead teams engaged in Caf Interclub competitions, as they do not hold the appropriate coaching license. Caf has raised its standards for a coach to be admitted to the club’s bench and from last season, all clubs had to ensure that their head coach comply with these licensing requirements. It has recently emerged that Cape Town City could be forced to participate in next season’s Caf Champions League without having head coach Eric Tinkler on the bench, as he doesn’t have the required Caf A license. Tinkler has got the Uefa A licence but it still doesn’t meet the requirements from Caf, which indicate that a coach with qualifications from outside the continent should also have the Uefa Pro Licence. The Citizens mentor isn’t the only coach in the PSL who has struggled with Caf’s strict requirements, with former Bloemfontein Celtic coach John Maduka forced to miss Siwelele’s Caf Confederation Cup campaign a few seasons ago. Although Khoza admits that Mzansi coaches are victims of a system that is somewhat flawed at Safa level, they also need to take the initiative and try to get their badges elsewhere if the normal route doesn’t seem to be working. “The Caf licensing problem, the courses did not happen for the past couple of years for some strange reason and that’s why the coaches couldn’t get their badges in order to qualify,” said Khoza. “We have a very strict regime and I’m part of it. But we know that this is like education, to further your studies, you need to take the initiative. And sometimes to get your postgraduate, for example, you have to go elsewhere, to a different institution. You have to find a way to do it on your own. “But this is not happening that much because South Africans don’t like to travel, they want to be domesticated. If you to other countries, even here in Africa you will find that their people go to the UK or USA, but we don’t do that here. “Our coaches that are emerging must spend money out of their own pockets and better themselves. You don’t have to wait for anyone.”