MINISTER
in the Presidency for Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Maite
Nkoana-Mashabane has joined the chorus of those who condemned the Krugersdorp
gang rape incident. Nkoana-Mashabane, through the statement of her
department, said South Africa is at war with itself. The minister said the war declared by men against women
in the country must be met with the harshest response and sentences. "We cannot continue as normal when women in their
diversity are statistics and live in constant fear in a free country. "Unemployment
is high and to hear that these young women were shooting a music video when
they were approached by a group of men who raped and robbed them of their
belongings is despicable. We are coordinating our response to support the women
violated in this despicable manner. " Nkoana-Mashabane said, "As more details come to
light, I am angered by the depravity displayed by these vile
perpetrators. "We
plead with SAPS to continue to search for the perpetrators and bring
those responsible to book. The eight women must have justice served." The minister further said, "The law must take its
course, but in cases of this nature the Justice System must show no
mercy when sentencing these perpetrators. These perpetrators must
receive a harsh punishment for their crimes, as there is no place in society
for them." On Friday, police Minister Bheki Cele announced that they
have arrested over 60 suspects in the West Rand. READ: MALEMA calls for police to 'shoot-to-kill' EFF's spokesman Sinawo Thambo said in their statement,
"The EFF condemns this crime and welcomes the swift action by the
police to apprehend the suspected criminals. "The
arrest of these suspects provides little comfort to the victims as they
were inflicted with permanent physical and emotional scars. The fact that
gender-based violence and femicide (GBVF) prevalence continues to decapitate
the humanity of women is an indication of the deep-seated misogynist rot
flourishing in our country." He added, "It further proves that women, in general,
have been abandoned by the law enforcement agencies. Men have
appropriated to themselves the right to inflict unimaginable pain on women and
they do this with impunity because of the failed justice system. 67 men decided
to be part of or complicit in violently gang-raping women and none of them had
the consciousness nor morality to intervene to stop this brutality."  