 SPRINGBOKS have won the series, beating Wales 30-14 in what was a breathless match at DHL Stadium on Saturday. With this win, the Boks won the series by 2-1, bouncing back after losing the second test match last weekend in Bloemfontein. Tries by flyhalf Handre Pollard, hooker Bongi Mbonambi and captain Siya Kolisi were enough to see the Boks win the series in a nail biting match in Cape Town. Pollard, on top of the try, was clinical in the boots, scoring six penalties. Vitally, Pollard scored two late penalties in the 78th minute and 80th minute to all but end Wales’ resistance and hope to get back in the game. Pollard’s form, this will amuse coach Jacque Nienaber after Elton Jantjies was poor in the first test. For Wales, who were looking to join France (twice) and All Blacks to win the series in South Africa against the Springboks, tried as they could, and Tommy Reffel was the only one who dived over for the tourists. Captain Dan Biggar scored four penalties, but Wales will take some heart as they were the better side towards the end of the first half. They will also go home knowing that they won in SA against the Springboks for the first time last weekend in the 11th attempt. It was a great day in the office for Mbonambi, who dived over for his 11th try on his 50th cap for the Springboks. On the bench, after he was replaced by Malcom Marx in the second half, he beamed a beautiful smile with prop Trevor Nyakane, after the starting front rows had emptied their tank in the first half. It was also a great day for Eben Etzebeth on his 100th cap, becoming the youngest Bok player to do so, surpassing former Bok winger Bryan Habana. With the series wrapped up, the Boks will have a short break to recharge their batteries. Their next fixtures are six matches in the Rugby Championship against New Zealand, Australia and Argentina. They will start the competition at home when they host the All Blacks in two test matches, starting on 6 August at Mbombela Stadium and a week later at Emirates Air Line Park Stadium on 13 August.