Stellenbosch University expelled the student who urinated on
another student’s computer in May this year. In a statement released this evening the university said after an
investigation and hearing, they found no other alternative but to expel the
perpetrator. The university said perpetrator Thuens du Toit violated the
Disciplinary Code for Students. “These findings led the CDC to conclude that there is no
alternative but to expel Mr. Du Toit with immediate effect from the University.
Once Mr. Du Toit has received the reasons for the CDC’s decision, he has five
workdays to file a notice of appeal, against the CDC’s finding and/or
sanction,” the statement read. According to the university, the disciplinary hearing was
concluded on 23 June. “On 21 July 2022 the independent Central Disciplinary
Committee (CDC) of SU found Mr. Du Toit guilty of contravening clauses 3.1,
9.1, 9.3, 13.1, and 13.2 of SU’s Disciplinary Code for Students,” the statement
added. The university said it strongly condemns any form of racism,
discrimination, or other prejudice. It added that issues involving human
dignity are not negotiable and they had to take tough actions to ensure there
is no racism at the institution. The victim Babalo Ndwanyana woke up from his sleep only to
witness the shock of his life. He saw a man urinating on his laptop and study
desk. When he asked why he was doing that, the unmoved Thuens continued with
his act. The video which was posted online caused a huge outcry and
many people called for Thuens to be expelled. The incident was followed by
several protests at the campus. Speaking to Daily Sun, the victim Ndwanyana said he heard
about the developments and he is happy. “I feel better in my spirit because I
feel that eventually, justice has been served,” he said. Prof Deresh Ramjugernath, Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Learning
and Teaching said: “The University viewed this case in a very serious light.
This was evident in, amongst others, the original temporary suspension of Mr.
Du Toit from the University while also appointing Justice Sisi Khampepe to lead
an independent commission of inquiry into alleged racism at SU.”