  AFTER shutting down for almost a year due to fire, there seems to be no end in sight to fires at Charlotte Maxeke Joburg Academic Hospital as another fire has been reported. This is the second fire to be reported at the hospital following last year’s blaze that forced the hospital to close. But the recent fire, which started on Tuesday night, won’t hinder operations at the partially reopened hospital. Health department head of communication, Motalatale Modiba said: “The Gauteng Department of Health confirmed that the smouldering fire that was detected at the Charlotte Maxeke Joburg Academic Hospital’s unused P2 parking bay has been brought under control.” “Late on Tuesday night, 5 July, security personnel reported that there was smoke that seemed to be coming from one of the structures. “Firefighters from the City of Joburg immediately responded to the situation and managed to contain the fire, which was confined to a small section of the level two parking. The Hillbrow police also went on site after the matter was reported to them.” Modiba said the level two parking is one of the areas that was affected by the April 2021 fire. “Upon assessing the situation, clinicians on-site, together with the facility’s head of disaster, made a call that the situation did not warrant for patients to be evacuated as the smoke from the fire was not too thick or high risk for inhalation. Services at the facility continue to be rendered as normal. “The situation is currently being closely monitored by the multidisciplinary team that is on site. The cause of the fire is being investigated.” Last month, there was fire reported at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital in Soweto after the blaze engulfed the unused tent at the hospital and unused linen, which was put aside to be disposed of. Fortunately, there were no injuries reported. Steve Biko Academic Hospital in Tshwane also experienced a fire incident with no injuries and fatalities reported as the part that was on fire was also not in use at the time.  