BHUNU Malandule braved the hippo and crocodile-infested Sabi River on Sunday, 10 July. This is because he and a family friend, Ralph Mpangane, were trying to retrieve the body of Skhumbuzo Skhumbane (24). Skhumbuzo was allegedly kidnapped from his gogo’s house in Mkhuhlu near Hazyview, Mpumalanga, by a relative and two other men on Saturday, 2 July. He was later thrown into the river. Bhunu, who is a Bushbuckridge municipal chief whip, said they searched for Skhumbuzo along with police divers on Friday, 8 July and Saturday, 9 July, but were unsuccessful. “The search was put off because of bushy reeds. Police arranged a chopper to continue the search yesterday, 11 July, but we decided to return on Sunday morning. Although hippos charged at us, we braved the situation,” he said. Skhumbuzo’s colleagues from KFC were also searching for him at the bridge side. “They suddenly shouted at us as they had spotted a KFC jacket in the water. We quickly dived in and found it was him floating in his KFC uniform. “We used some equipment to retrieve his body and handed it over to the police,” he said. Skhumbuzo’s mum, Dolly (40), said his lips and eyes were sliced off and his private parts were missing. “It’s clear he was murdered elsewhere for muthi before he was thrown into the river. Miraculously the crocodile or hippos didn’t feast on him.” Dolly said they learnt about the drama from her cousin on Wednesday, 6 July. “She said she and my Skhumbuzo were kidnapped by a relative and his two friends. “She said they assaulted Skhumbuzo, accusing him of stealing a laptop, before bungling them into a Mercedes-Benz and driving off. “They stopped at a distance and the three men dragged Skhumbuzo out of the car. “They later returned alone,” she said. Dolly said when her cousin asked where Skhumbuzo was, they said he had run away. “A few days later, Skhumbuzo’s friends told me the relative told them he had thrown him into the Sabi River. I then reported the matter to the cops He denied the allegations when the police interrogated himHe changed his version and confessed to throwing him into the river for stealing his laptop. He led the police to the river, but we found nothing,” she said Colonel Donald Mdhluli said: “Four suspects, aged 24 , 25, 30 and 36, have been arrested and will appear in the Mkhuhlu Magistrates Court on Tuesday, 12 July, for kidnapping and murder.”