MULTI-AWARD singer Babyface is heading to Mzansi for the DStv Delicious International Food and Music Festival. After a two-year absence, the festival is coming back with a bang and bringing some of the world’s biggest artists, alongside the 12-time Grammy winner. Nigerian superstar Burna Boy, Stereo MCs and Digable Planets are also on the line-up. Mzansi artists who are on the line-up so far are Msaki, Simphiwe Dana, Lerato Kganyago, DJ Lamiez, Major League DJz, Soul Sista Zane, as well kwaito legends Thebe, Kabelo, Mdu, Trompies. The return of the festival was announced on Wednesday night, 6 July, at Multichoice City in Randburg at an event hosted by poet Lebo Mashile. Lebo will also be the host for the main events, which will take place on 23 and 24 September at the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit. The festival organisers will also be doing some charity work this year. ALSO READ : Chef Lucia: 'I want nothing to do with Kelly Khumalo' The founder of the festival, Lloyd Cornwall, said they will start planting vegetables that they hope will have grown by the time the festival ends. At the end of the festival, they will be chopped up, made into vegetable stews and given to hungry families. “There’s a big emphasis this year on what we will be doing for the less fortunate. We are also doing this initiative in conjunction with Chefs with Compassion and our stars. We will also release cooking videos and stars in the line-up will do the cooking,” he said. Chief executive officer at MultiChoice, Nyiko Shiburi, said they’re excited to bring back the festival.  “We are excited to bring back the much-loved DStv Delicious International Food and Music Festival. This is a festival that allows artists to tell their stories through music and chefs through the delicious meals that they put together,” said Shiburi. He said the festival will reignite the music industry following the effects of the pandemic. “The last time we were able to host the festival was in 2019 and so much has happened between then and now. The Covid-19 pandemic had a devastating impact on businesses and more so, the entertainment industry. “This festival is undoubtedly one of the highlights on the African entertainment calendar and it will give an opportunity to reignite the entertainment industry,” said Nyiko. More artists who will perform are set to be announced, leading up to the festival.