In a repeat of the 2018 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations final, nine-time record continental champions Nigeria take on South Africa in a much-anticipated Group C encounter that is expected to produce fireworks on Monday night at 7pm. For many, this is the final before the final, a pure clash of the titans. The two most in-form teams played in the Aisha Buhari Invitational final in September last year in Lagos, with Banyana Banyana stunning the Super Falcons 4-2 to lift the inaugural trophy. The result left a bitter taste in the mouths of the continental giants and now they are seeking revenge. They want to correct their mistakes and remind everyone why they are the number one team on the continent in the Fifa rankings. Speaking at the pre-match press conference, Super Falcons captain Onome Ebi said: “When we saw the draw, we told ourselves that this is exactly like 2018. No team is a pushover. We have a competition to play and no team can be taken for granted. “We are here in the first game. It is not going to be easy. It is just like playing a final in the beginning. I like the fact that we are playing them in the first game. I think playing against them will motivate us.” The Super Falcons, coached by the experienced Randy Waldrum, are a well-oiled team with experience and youthful exuberance and most importantly a never-give-up attitude that has for decades proved why they are the best. However, South Africa stands in their way as they look to finally break that jinx of choking when it matters on the big stage - and that effort starts in their opening game against the reigning champions. At the heart of that challenge is goalkeeper Andile Dlamini, who admitted that: “Your first game of the tournament is always the biggest game and what makes it even bigger is that it is Nigeria, who are the defending champions. So because it is Nigeria, the game is bigger than what it is supposed to be. “It's also the first game of the tournament and you want to start well. And you know, it's going to be a tough encounter,because they are a top side. They're not the champions of Africa for nothing. "They've been consistent over the last couple of years and that is where we have to improve - to be consistent in our performances, to be able to be close enough to this, but I think it's all about the three points. I think the three points are the most important at the moment to get the tournament off to a good start.”