A WOMAN with a phantom pregnancy cooked up a scheme with her pregnant colleague to give her a baby. It is understood that the pregnant woman didn’t want to keep the baby and the woman who was not pregnant was desperate to give her boyfriend a a bay. But the plan unravelled and the mother took back her child. That’s when the woman lied to the cops that her newborn baby had been kidnapped at gunpoint. On Monday(4/7), the 36-year-old woman confessed to the cops and she was arrested and charged with perjury. Daily Sun understands that the woman who is already a mother of two, had been dating her boyfriend for 10 years. The newborn baby was expected to be their first child together. According to sources, the woman presented a number of pregnancy symptoms including a big belly. A source said: “Her boyfriend had an affair and impregnated the other woman who gave birth to twins. We think she felt under pressure because she didn’t have any children with the man and faked her pregnancy.” Another source said: “She lied to everyone including her boyfriend. Her boyfriend is heartbroken and distressed about how things turned out.” The boyfriend declined to comment. In a statement, the woman said her colleague wanted to either terminate the pregnancy or give the baby up for adoption. Police spokeswoman, Colonel Dimakatso Sello said the woman reported that her new born baby had been kidnapped by an unknown suspect. “It was later established that the suspect was never pregnant but received the baby from her colleague after she gave birth as she did not want the child,” said Sello. “After a few days the colleague changed her mind and took her baby back resulting in the suspect opening a false case of kidnapping. This is because she didn’t know how to explain the whereabouts of the baby to her boyfriend and family.” She is expected to appear before Protea Magistrate Court soon. Meanwhile, the biological mother from Boitumelo near Sebokeng in Vereeniging is expected to give a statement to the police.