GQEBERHA and Mthatha in the Eastern Cape have been identified as hot spots for organised crime and gang-related offences by the National Prosecuting Authority. This comes after five people were recently killed in Gqeberha in what police believe were gang-related incidents. On Tuesday, 19 July, two men, aged 23 and 29, were found dead in a house in Kwazakhele. Three brothers, aged between 17 and 24, were also shot dead in Motherwell the following day. All five victims were shot in the head. Eastern Cape director of public prosecutions, Barry Madolo, has promised to increase the focus on organised crime and gang activities in Mthatha and Gqeberha. “There is a shortage of deputy directors of public prosecutions in the province. There are only two, one in Gqeberha and on in Makhanda,” he said. Filling these vacancies is an issue that is receiving urgent attention,” he said. and recommendations for appointments have been made to the minister for approval. In the meantime, the general prosecutions team will assist the division in these matters. ALSO READ | ‘Hijack’ gogo - Angiyazi leVW Polo mina! “In the 2020/21 financial year, the province performed well as it achieved a 93% conviction rate in gender-based violence and femicide cases. The conviction rate in high courts stood at 94,2% while regional courts were at 78% and district courts at 83%.” This will help with the arrest and conviction of suspects. Madolo said in the 2020/21 financial year, conviction rate for murder was 83,7%, while femicide was at 96,1% and sexual offences was 77,8%. The NPA secured 100 convictions for matters related to organised crime while six government officials were convicted for offences related to corruption. “The achievements are born of a conscious decision to have portfolio heads for each of the priority crimes such as organised crime, serious complex commercial crimes, environmental matters, child justice, gender-based violence, organised stock theft, asset forfeiture and tax matters,” he said. “To strengthen the capacity of the division and to ensure that criminals do not enjoy the benefits of crime, a fully-fledged asset forfeiture unit has been established in Mthatha, in addition to the two in Gqeberha and East London.”