PHAKAMILE Sitho (42), who is the leader of #Stopfarmmurders campaign, has opened a case against President Cyril Ramaphosa. The case, in the Free State High Court in Bloemfontein, which opened on 19 July is about farm killings across the country. Sitho referred to Ramaphosa speaking to the Bloomberg Global Business Forum in New York on 26 September 2018. “In that interview, the president said there were no killings of white farmers or land grabs in South Africa,” said Sitho. He said that the president said they were seeking to put right the wrongs when the majority of the land was appropriated. Ramaphosa was responding to a tweet from then US president Donald Trump, lamenting what he called a large-scale killing of farmers and land seizures in South Africa. Sitho said that Ramaphosa was lying on two instances. “He proudly said there were no murders of white farmers and no land grabs,” said Sitho. He said he launched his investigations then and hundreds of farmers, black and white as well as farmworkers, were killed every day. “Some were raped. Some had their property stolen. “What happened in Kestell, where seven people were brutally murdered, is evidence enough to hold the president accountable.” He said that in many cases, the aim was not to rob but to kill, and that some farm attacks were influenced by negative remarks by politicians to say they would take land by force. In 2018, Sitho led a group of people to the Union Buildings against the expropriation of land without compensation. “I’m suing the president to protect food security. “I’m doing this without any funding,” he said. “I’m a patriotic South African.” Sitho said that he was aiming to stop incidents on farms through court. He also called for Ramaphosa’s arrest. “The South African agricultural sector is under attack. “The president must be held responsible for the attacks,” he said. Farmer Fanie Botha said they were living in fear and security had to be increased. Presidential spokesman Vincent Magwenya said the Presidency was not aware of the case. “We will respond to papers once we receive them,” said Magwenya. The case is expected to be heard in the High Court on 25 August.