NJABULO Ndlovu, who is accused of a triple murder and two counts of rape, pleaded guilty on all the charges against him during his appearance in the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Tuesday, 12 July. His case was adjourned and he will be back in court on 21 July for sentencing after Judge Poyo Dlwati found him guilty of all charges. Ndlovu is accused of brutally strangling to death gogo Zanele Ndlela (65), her daughter Simangele Ndlela (46) and her granddaughter Zenande Ndlela (8) from Sobantu area in Pietermaritzburg. Ndlovu is also accused of raping little Zenande. During his plea, Ndlovu told the court that he strangled Zenande and raped her twice. Ndlovu also told the court that he stabbed Zanele on the neck and on the face. KZN social development MEC Nonhlahla Khoza commended the investigating team for a sterling job, which will result in Ndlovu being imprisoned for a long time. “It is clear that Ndlovu’s action were premeditated. We are in so much pain because of the murder of defenceless women. “Although the conviction will not bring them back, we find comfort in the fact that this heartless man will spend his life in prison. “We are pleased by the work done by the police in investigating this case, which ensured quick finality,” she said. The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) members in the Moses Mabhida region were among the group of people who were protesting outside the court, calling for a stiff sentence. Regional secretary, Nkosi Mkhize, said:  when they were elected as the new leadership, one of their priority mandates they had was to fight against the GBV.“We joined the residents because gender-based violence affects us all. “We are here to call for the end of this norm of abuse and killing of women and children in Pietermaritzburg.” Mkhize said they need this case to set an example for those who are still thinking of abusing the vulnerable women and children. “We will continue to put pressure on such cases so that justice is served,” said Mkhize. Ndlovu will appear again for his sentencing on 21 July. The court has indicated that it wants to apply for sentencing without parole.