SERGEANT Mapaseka Maketekete studied sign language after realising it was very difficult to help deaf people opening cases at police stations. Maketekete from Boipatong Police Station in the Vaal said her house has been turned into a police station. When she’s at home, her colleagues bring deaf people there for her to assist in interpreting for victims who want to open cases. The 37-year-old told Daily Sun she learnt sign language through the Wits Language School after seeing the necessity of bridging the gap, as she noticed deaf residents were struggling at police stations. Maketekete started interpreting from July 2018, helping out at the station’s client service centre, as the area has deaf people who mostly didn’t get proper assistance. She said she was assisting client service centres in the Sedibeng region. Sometimes the courts asked her for help and she also got video calls from other districts to assist them. In 2018 at the South African Police Station (SAPS) National Youth Summit, Maketekete was officially appointed project manager for disability by former national commissioner Khehla Sitole. In 2019, she was appointed as Gauteng sign language co-ordinator. Since then, she said she has been knocking at the doors of special schools for them to assist in training police members in sign language. According to Maketekete, MC Kharbai Special School in Lenasia, south of Joburg, opened its doors and trained 20 SAPS members for free. The group finished their course in June this year and the second group will be starting training in August. Before the classes begin, Maketekete drafts modules that the school uses to train officers. She said the love she had for sign language also made her husband end up loving it. He also joined the group that graduated from MC Kharbai Special School in June. Maketekete thanked Deaf SA, the police service and her family for the encouragement, assistance and support they gave her and the special school for opening doors for training police officers.