THE devastating floods that left most parts of KZN damaged in April had forced many organisations to help the residents to recover from the traumatic experience. The impact of the floods forced the provincial government to declare the state of disaster in KZN. Since then, help has been flowing from all directions. Sun International’s Sibaya Casino was not left behind as it played its role in helping to clean up and restore some natural resources. The company joined hands with the Adopt a River campaign to clean up a beach that was badly affected by the floods. It donated gloves and helped clean up the Beachwood Golf Course Beach, which was impacted by the heavy rains. The golf course itself was closed indefinitely because of the floods. According to Sibaya Casino’s safety, health and environment manager, Solomon Khumalo, the purpose of this clean-up was to help restore the beach, as well as to create awareness on the impact of human actions on the ocean. He said every single beach in KZN was affected by the floods, some worse than others. Beachwood, which is open to the public and frequented by dog walkers, fishermen, and families, had not yet been cleaned extensively. “This particular beach had not yet been cleaned properly since the first floods and our aim was to make a difference by highlighting how important beaches are as part of the natural ecosystem. “The clean-up campaign was also done in conjunction with Oceans Alive, other corporates, NGOs and individuals,” said Khumalo. Adopt a River director, Janet Simpkins, said they were grateful to all the partners who came out to lend a hand with tidying up a valuable natural resource. She added that they rolled up their sleeves and removed plastic and other items that polluted the oceans and threatened to destroy marine life. Even fragile coral barrier reefs have been found to digest tiny fragments of plastic at the same rate as their normal food. “We can all help to clean up our rivers and oceans and it only involves changing some of our habits at home. “Think before you wash chemicals down your drain, be selective in your packaging options, look for reusable coffee cups, carry your own water bottle, stay away from single use plastics. and always recycle,” said Simpkins.