THE South African government has sent a request for mutual legal assistance for the extradition of the Gupta brothers. Briefing the media on High Profile Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance matters on Monday, 25 July, Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola said the request for Atul and Rajesh Gupta has been filed with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Lamola said: “We can confirm that the extradition request has been submitted. The request is made in accordance with the treaty between South Africa and the UAE as well as the United Nations conventions against corruption, which is a multilateral international convention which both countries are member states,” said Lamola. The brothers were arrested in Dubai last month after an Interpol red notice was issued for the brothers who are wanted for corruption, fraud and money laundering charges. The charges relate to a R24,9 million tender that was issued by the Free State Department of Agriculture to a company called Nulane Investments 204 between November 2011 and April 2012. Among other high profile cases Lamola gave an update about was on self-proclaimed Malawian prophet Shepherd Bushiri and his wife, Mary, and the robbery at President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala Game farm. The minister said the judgment in the Bishiris extradition case is expected next month in the Malawian court, where the couple has been appearing. On Phala Phala matter, he said it wasn’t correct that there was no response from South Africa on the requested mutual legal assistance from the Namibia authorities. He said the delay was cause by having one of the accused, David Immanuwela, being registered under a different name. Lamola said: “The Central Authority of the Republic of South Africa has transmitted correspondence through the diplomatic channels to set the record straight with the Namibia authorities.” He said at this point the central authority was still awaiting the amended request from the authorities in Namibia. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head, Advocate Shamila Batohi, told the briefing that the Guptas application was submitted in both English and Arabic. She said a multi-disciplinary team led the legal aspect of the process. “The submission of the formal application request for the arrest and extradition of the Gupta brothers is an important milestone in the NPA’s commitment to hold accountable perpetrators of state capture and to uphold the rule of law.” She said NPA will, at all times, support its counterparts in the UAE to ensure that the brothers are extradited to face justice in South Africa. Batohi said although the process could take several months, the NPA was committed to delivering justice for impact. “The country demands this of us. We are ready to keep moving to bring justice.”