A JOINT sting operation between police from Mpumalanga and
KwaZulu-Natal led to the arrest of seven suspects aged between 19 and 35 on
charges of being found in possession of 60 suspected robbed and stolen mobile
phones in Piet Retief on 07 July 2022. Police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said according to the
information, there was a business robbery at Boxer Supermarket in Piet Retief
on Tuesday, 04 July 2022 and in response to the robbery, a team was assembled
to trace the suspects thereof. Mohlala said, “Information regarding the whereabouts of the
suspects was availed then followed up by members of the team and they were led
to Richards Bay in KZN. As a result, one suspect was apprehended in connection with
the said robbery incident. Mohlala said the tour of a thorough investigation, further details
were obtained, leading to the arrest of additional 6 suspects. Among the suspects arrested, two are shop owners who were found
with some of the suspected stolen cell phones on the shelves of their shops.
They too were charged with possession of suspected stolen properties. “The suspects could further be linked to other robbery incidents
previously reported in various areas of the province or even somewhere else.
Police cannot rule out the possibility of adding more charges against them as
the probe continues. The preliminary investigation thus far has revealed that some of
the items were robbed and stolen in Amsterdam, Paul Pietersburg (in KZN) and
Piet Retief. The suspects are expected to appear at the Piet Retief
Magistrate's Court on Monday, 11 July 2022 facing the said charges.” Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant
General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela said, “We are encouraged by the recovery of
the suspected stolen items and the arrest of the suspects. We cannot allow a
situation whereby a person operates a shop wherein stolen items are sold. That
will have to be followed up and serious drastic steps taken and if need be,
such a shop should be closed after further engagement with relevant
stakeholders. “South Africa is a country with laws and we can never allow any
person to turn it into a banana republic under our watch. The public should now
make sure they do not purchase stolen properties."