AS long serving South African Communist Party (SACP) general secretary Blade Nzimande bows out at the upcoming elective conference this week, some structures within the party are calling for militant leadership to restore it as the champion of the working class. Nzimande has been the party’s head honcho since 1998 and although it’s a tripartite alliance of the African National Congress (ANC), it led the SACP during a period when it had a love-hate relationship with the governing party, even though he was in cabinet. He was instrumental in clearing the path for former president Jacob Zuma to the top job. But the two fell out towards Zuma’s exit, resulting in him being axed as minister only to be reinstated by President Cyril Ramaphosa. With Nzimande stepping down, it’s expected to be a shoe in for first deputy secretary Solly Mapaila to take over, but it’s gearing up to be an ugly battle for other positions. This with Nzimande reportedly trying to influence them. Many SACP members have been critical of Nzimande’s leadership and that he enjoyed the privilege of being appointed in the cabinet, and relegated the duties of running the party to Mapaila. The Western Cape SACP, after its provincial conference, didn’t mince its words, saying the party needed to renew itself and leadership to re-prioritise the national development revolution. “In the current epoch, the party requires a strong energetic, militant, dynamic grounded leadership among the people capable of inspiring confidence to the majority people and instilling fear to the enemy of our revolution. “Such leadership must not be apologetic about the interest of the working class, and must be ready to lead the party towards the envisaged electoral path. Party leadership needs a fundamental overhaul to pursue class struggle to advance socialism. For a radical reconstitution of South Africa, we need a militant leadership at the helm,” the province said. Limpopo SACP has taken a stand to ramp up the reconfiguration of the alliance, a call that has been made for years with both the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Casatu) and SACP complaining about Zuma not playing ball. The alliance partners were buoyed when Ramaphosa triumphed at Nasrec in 2017 when he promised closer working relationship with the alliance, raising their hopes but he too, some alliance leaders insist, has stalled in the matter. The Limpopo SACP wants this matter revisited. “The PEC commits to embark on a concerted programme towards the reconfiguration of the alliance, as well as the coherence and unity of purpose among all components – inclusive of and paying special attention to Sanco,” it said in one of its resolutions of its conference earlier this year. The party’s conference kicked off on Wednesday at the Birchwood Hotel in Boksburg, with addresses from alliance partner leaders from Cosatu and the South African National Civic Organisation. Ramaphosa is scheduled to deliver his address on Friday.