SECURITY was tight as four accused, aged between 23 and 36, appeared in the Mkhuhlu Magistrates Court yesterday, 12 July, for the kidnapping and murder of Skhumbuzo Skhumbane (24). Hundreds of residents, including ANC members, and the ANC Women’s League protested outside the court, saying the accused should be denied bail. The suspects were not asked to plead guilty before Magistrate Tsakani Usinga. Prosecutor Aurelia Makukule said: “The accused are facing a very serious offence falling under schedule six.” The four suspects shockingly opted to conduct their own defence. Skhumbuzo’s mum, Dolly Skhumbane (40), said: “I want to see justice taking its course. The accused must rot in jail for killing my son. We don’t have money to bury my son.  “Post mortem results showed that his private parts were not missing, but his eyes and lips are still missing.” Ward Councillor Bio Mpangane said: “We are here to support the family. from the beginning until justice is done. We are disturbed by this brutal murder.” Community policing forum member, Given Ndlovu, condemned the killing. Skhumbuzo’s body was retrieved from the crocodile and hippo-infested Sabi River connecting to the Kruger National Park, outside Mkhuhlu near Hazyview. The body was retrieved by Bushbuckridge municipal chief whip, Bhunu Malandule and family friend, Ralph Mpangane, on Sunday, 10 July. Skhumbuzo was allegedly kidnapped at his gogo’s house in Mkhuhlu by a relative and two other men on Saturday, 2 July. His body was found in Sabi River. Colonel Donald Mdhluli confirmed that the four suspects were arrested and charged with kidnapping and murder. Malandule said they mobilized and went to the river searching for Skhumbuzo along with the police divers on Friday and Saturday, but were unsuccessful. “The search was then put off, because of the bushy reeds. Police decided to arrange a chopper to continue with the search on Monday. But we decided to return on Sunday morning, though hippos charged at us. But we braved the situation. Skhumbuzo’s colleagues from KFC were already there searching for him from the bridge side. Suddenly, they shouted at us as they spotted a KFC jacket in the water below the bridge. We risked and quickly dived in. We found him floating half above the water in his work uniform. We used some equipment to retrieving his body from the water and handed his body over to the police,” he said. The case was postponed to 18 July.