EFF leader Julius Malema said they will approach all political parties in Parliament to engage on a motion of no confidence against President Cyril Ramaphosa. Malema was briefing the media at the party’s headquarters, Winnie Madikizela Mandela House in Marshalltown, Joburg on Thursday, 14 July. He said the party will also engage in a national shutdown to remove Ramaphosa from office and called on all South Africans to join. Malema said Ramaphosa is not above the law and no one is above the law. He said the tendency of buying people, buying judges and corrupting the country must come to an end. “Ramaphosa will leave very soon and we will restore our political and economic partnerships and common prosperity,” he said. “Ramaphosa has confessed to his caucus, his own faction, that he has got no defence on the money, the money was illegal and he has no answer, therefore he must step down.” Malema said that when it came to the motion of no confidence, their approach was going to be a bit different in that they were going to speak to all political parties in Parliament, including the DA and ANC.  “The ANC went to its own caucus and took a resolution to vote on a motion of no confidence of the EFF. That’s when Zuma resigned, after a night before he refused. “The EFF will get consensus, even from the ANC. It has happened before,” he said. He said he was confident that the ANC people will accept that the motion of no confidence must be put before the president if he didn’t step down. He said that the DA will have to defend the president. “So, if the DA decides to vote against the motion of no confidence, then the people of South Africa must choose what they want,” he said. He said they were not going to fold their arms when they saw an open violation of the laws of the country, because they thought they won’t get sufficient support. Malema also called for the removal of the police minister. “Well, we don’t have a police minister, and we made this call a long time ago,” he said. He also called for KZN police chief, General Nhlanhla Mkwanazi to be the police commissioner. “Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi, when you look at him you see a man in uniform, who is disciplined, who is determined to deal with crime in South Africa,” said Malema.