The Chairman of the Select Committee on Education and
Training, Sports, Arts and Culture, Elleck Nchabeleng is concerned with the
utterance that the South African Football Association (SAFA) lacks funds to pay
the bonus to Banyana Banyana. Nchabeleng said it is a known principle that promises made
were tantamount to debt that needed to be paid. “SAFA needs to come
out clean and clarify this ongoing discussion on social media. In fact,
official communication about serious issues like the winning bonus for our
queens ought not to be made on social media first,” he said. He said if it is required that the money be raised even from
sponsors and the private sector that should be done. He said that they talking about African champs here, all
sponsors surely are queuing for an opportunity to be associated with Banyana
Banyana. “Truth is South Africa is African champions and the effort
that went into ensuring that such a dream is realised, ought to be
rewarded." "We do not want SAFA’s commitment to pay a winning
bonus to be drowned by the fanfare that is to follow the team’s arrival
home," he said. He added that: “From the committee’s point of view, SAFA
needs to approach this matter with the urgency it deserves, and ensure its
resolutions because it pertains to a national team." He called on the Department of Sport, Arts and Culture to
hold SAFA accountable and assist where it could to keep the fire burning on
women’s football in the country. READ: Ching ching, Banyana laughing to the bank! Meanwhile, the University of South Africa (UNISA) said in a
statement that it will make available a special bursary program for the 23
players in accordance with the university's admission policies. Gauteng Department of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation
has also come through for Banyana Banyana, by transferring R3,2mil towards them
and the development of grassroots female soccer. The ladies were hosted by the Presidency on Wednesday (27
July) following their huge welcome at the OR Tambo Airport on Tuesday (28
July). Banyana Banyana did not only defeat Africa at the Women
African Cup of Nation (WAFCON) 2022 finals in Morocco but also earned a
qualification spot at The Women’s Fifa World Cup