TWO people were taken to hospital after an accident that involved 14 vehicles on the N1 north near the Garsfontein offramp in Tshwane on Saturday night at about 7pm. One person was seriously injured and had to be airlifted to a medical facility and another with minor to moderate injuries was also transported to a medical facility. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesman deputy chief, Charles Mabaso, said a multiple vehicle pileup accident that occurred on the N1 north near the Garsfontein offramp in Tshwane left two people injured. Mabaso said when the accident was initially reported it said that at least 20 vehicles as well as a bus, truck and a taxi was involved in the accident with unknown injuries. “After struggling to reach the centre of the accident, emergency services were able to make further assessment with law enforcement officers and Bakwena Road Patrollers, only to find out that 13 vehicles were involved in the accident which included a truck, bus, taxi as well as two trailers,” he said. “Fortunately, there were no fatalities recorded on the scene, only two patients were transported to medical facilities, one patient was airlifted by a chopper to a medical facility with critical injuries and the other patient was transported with minor to moderate injuries.” Mabaso said the road was closed for the most part of the night and it was completely cleared at about 4am on Sunday morning. “The cause of the accident is not known at the moment and law enforcement officers are working on the matter to determine the cause of the accident,” said Mabaso. According to a statement by Emer-G-Med, they also responded to the accident. The statement read: “At approximately 7pm on Saturday night, Emer-G-Med paramedics together with multiple emergency service agencies, responded to the scene of a multi-vehicle collision on the N1 near Garsfontein in the Pretoria area. Reports from the scene are that twelve light motor vehicles, a truck and a bus collided, leaving as many as seventy people injured. Incident command officers established an on-scene triage area and further investigation revealed one patient to be in a critical condition.”