THE killers allegedly came looking for Sibusiso Hlatshwayo. Sibusiso (29) is said to have fought with one of the residents last weekend. Residents said Sibusiso moered the man, who is known in Kwanele in Katlehong.. And according to residents, the man wanted revenge and vowed Sibusiso was not going to see the end of the week. “One of his friends sent him a voice note warning him,” said a resident. This voice note was also heard by Daily Sun. According to a friend, who didn’t want to be named, Sibusiso took the warning lightly and never reported this to the police. On Friday, Sibusiso was shot dead. Before the incident happened, the patrons said the same man climbed on top of the snooker table and vowed to show certain individuals flames. At that time, Sibusiso and his friends were inside the Putlane Tavern in Katlehong. “The man went to rev his car so hard that it smoked and we told him to stop as we were suffocating from the smoke,” said a patron. The tavern patrons said they were wondering if this was not his signal to the killers. They said after he stopped, three men stormed the tavern and went straight to Sibusiso. “They pressed him on the floor and shot him three times,” said a patron. A patron, Beans Dlamini (55), tried to beg the killers not to shoot Sibusiso but they also shot him dead. The three suspects then shot at Sibusiso’s two friends and two more patrons were injured in the process. The suspects then fled the scene. Residents claim the man, who is a law enforcement officer, came back pretending to help. “We know that he is involved,” said a resident. The families of Sibusiso and Beans said they wanted justice for their loved ones. Sibusiso’s brother said he has been devastated by his brother’s death. “These people wanted Sibusiso. It’s a pity that some patrons became victims,” said a friend. Colonel Dimakatso Sello said the police are investigating two murder and attempted murder cases. Putlane Tavern owner refused to speak to Daily Sun, saying the matter is with the police.