SEVERAL people were killed in separate mass shootings in KZN and Cape Town. It’s alleged that six men were chilling at Shange homestead in Inchanga, just outside Pietermaritzburg, when armed men forcibly entered the room they were in and opened fire in the early hours of Saturday morning, 16 July. Four men died instantly, one was rushed to hospital and the other one was lucky to not sustain any injuries. It’s alleged the killings are related to a drug turf war that has seen many young people being murdered in the area. Among the men who died are the three Shange brothers – Qiniselani (42), Sibusiso (32) and Zwelihle (27), as well as their friend Mxolisi Maphumulo. KZN police spokeswoman Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said Inchanga police were investigating four cases of murder and two attempted murder. Meanwhile, cops in Cape Town are investigating a mass shooting in Site C, Khayelitsha on Saturday night. Police spokesman Colonel Andre Traut said: “SAPS have launched an investigation into a triple murder of three men aged 34, 36 and 50. They were gunned down on the corner of Nyebelele and Ntango streets in Site C by suspects who are yet to be bust.” Within an hour in a separate incident, two more men were gunned down in the Makhaza area, Khayelitsha. It happened in Tutu Avenue at 9.35pm, where people in a VW Polo shot at the occupants of another blue car and killed them. According to Colonel Andre Traut, three men were gunned down and cops are hunting for the killers who fled the scene just after the incident. “SAPS have launched an investigation into the circumstances of a triple murder last night in Khayelitsha. At about 8.30pm, three men aged 34, 36 and 50 were gunned down on the corner of Nyebelele and Ntango streets in Site C by suspects who are yet to be arrested. It’s not yet clear what led to the attack,” said Traut. Residents said they heard gunshots but didn’t know what was happening. Sinovuyo Ncilashe said: “I thought it was firecrackers or something, but I then received a message from a community WhatsApp group that people have been shot. The killings have started again in our kasi, and it’s scary because when these people start killing each other, innocent people are caught up in crossfire,” Within the space of an hour in a separate incident, two more men were gunned down in the Makhaza area, Khayelitsha. It happened in Tutu Avenue at 9.35pm, where people in a VW Polo shot at the occupants of another blue car and killed them. Cops said the killings could be linked to kasi drug turf wars. Traut said: “The victims were driving in their blue Hyundai sedan when they came under attack by occupants of a white VW Polo, who fled the scene. “One of the victims died on the scene while the other died shortly after being admitted to hospital. The incident could be linked to the drug trade in the area, but this will be established as our investigation unfolds.” These incidents come after Police Minister Bheki Cele delivered additional vans to Khayelitsha last month as a way to increase cops’ visibility, as the kasi has been plagued by mass killings for the past year. Meanwhile, two weeks ago cops arrested Yanga Nyalara, believed to be the mastermind behind the mass shootings that claimed 19 lives in Khayelitsha in the past year.