BUSI LURAYI had everything. She had beauty and charm, she had talent and all the skills. And at only 35 years of age, she had a great future ahead of her – but none of that matters any longer. THE BEAUTIFUL BUSI, WHOSE STAR SHOULD HAVE SHONE SO BRIGHT, IS NO MORE! Mzansi’s entertainment industry has suffered a great loss with the young actress’ sudden death. The SA Film and Television Award-winning actress was known for playing Phumzile in the popular SABC sitcom City Ses’la, and later in Ses’Top La. She recently acted in the Netflix original How to Ruin Christmas as Tumi Sello. A statement from the family shared by her management agency said the actress died on Sunday, 10 July. “The cause of her death is still unknown as we await the results of the autopsy report,” it said. “We request that you allow the family to come to terms with this tragic news. We thank you for the support given so far, and we will provide further information as soon as it has been made available.” ALSO READ: BREAKING: Top actress Busi Lurayi has passed away! Playwright and executive producer Mandla N, who worked with Busi on City Ses’la and Ses’Top La said: “We’ve worked with her for so many years. She was a hard worker, a dedicated colleague and she gave it her all.” He said her death was a big loss to the industry. “We‘re still trying to digest the news and everyone in the office is touched by her passing. We are keeping in touch with the family and we will follow their lead.” The SABC expressed its condolences on social media. “The SABC is saddened by the untimely passing of the stage and screen actress Busisiwe Lurayi. She will be remembered for her talent and commitment to the craft,” it said. Her recent employers at Netflix, ZA and Burnt Onion Productions, also released statements. Netflix said: “We are deeply saddened by the tragic passing of Busi Lurayi and send our deepest condolences to her family and loved ones.” Burnt Onion Productions said: “All of us on the production of How To Ruin Christmas are shocked and deeply saddened by the death of our beloved colleague Busi Lurayi. “She is an exceptional talent who was in the prime of her career. Her death is a huge loss not only for us, but for South Africa’s creative industry and all her fans.” ALSO READ: IMVULA FM facing unfair labour practice allegations! Fellow How To Ruin Christmas actress Thando Thabethe said: “The best sisterhood on our TV screens. Sending love and light.” Actor Sizwe Jiyane said on Twitter: “Just yesterday I finally met her at the Market Theatre and told her we’re going to meet again. We met later at Shakers. Just when I was leaving she gave me a kiss. I didn’t know that was goodbye.” Oscar-winning actress Terry Pheto said on Twitter: “What a great great loss! RIP BusiLurayi.” 5FM said: “Sending our deepest condolences to prolific actress Busi Lurayi’s loved ones.” Busi is survived by her daughter. 