FORMER Orlando Pirates and Marumo Gallants goalkeeper, Brighton Mhlongo, is trying to pick up the pieces after his playing career was abruptly ended by injury. In 2021, Mhlongo was forced into early retirement due to an eye injury he suffered in training during his time with Gallants, aged 30. Despite the devastating end to his football career, the shot-stopper has been working hard to ensure that he stays relevant in the game and continues to make ends meet. It’s not been easy, however, for the former Bafana Bafana goalie as he’s had to find new ways to put food on the table for his loved ones. Mhlongo has been involved in various platforms and initiatives and has also been doing work as a football analyst, where he hopes to grow into one of the best. The former Chippa United star is desperate to break into one of the big channels as an analyst and is currently working his way up through an internship with a radio station. “I’m trying to find my feet and hopefully something will come up,” said Mhlongo. “I want to do better for myself. I’ve been trying to look at a lot of spaces that I can infiltrate with TV and radio analysis being one of them. “I have been doing a lot of analysis. I’m just waiting for the right opportunity from the top platforms or channels where I can do my football analysis. “I’m waiting for the right opportunity, whether it’s SuperSport or SABC. Now, I have been doing it with VisionView radio who have given me an internship where I can grow my knowledge in radio analysis. “I must also give credit to eTV morning show who call me time and again as their resident analyst for the morning show.” As part of his contribution to the game as a former professional, Mhlongo wants to help revive school sports and help produce the next big thing in Mzansi football. Mhlongo believes school sports has been neglected in the country despite producing some of the best talent Mzansi has seen in various sports. “For me right now my focus is on school projects, I want to emphasise sport and academic excellence,” added Mhlongo. “I feel we’ve kind of neglected the schools to a point that we have forgotten that most of the talent we’ve produced was throughout school sports. “We also need to remember that these kids practice what they learn at school in their communities so if we give them the right tools at school, they become better and productive members of society.”