ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte’s death has left a huge void in the secretary office, particularly as the party was preparing for national conference in December. Treasurer general Paul Mashatile, addressing a press briefing following Duarte’s death on the morning of Sunday, July 17, said although she had been on medical leave battling cancer, the party hoped she’d recover and be back at work. Mashatile said it could not have come at a worse time for the party in its conference year. Duarte died after a long battle with cancer. According to Muslim rites, she will be buried later in the day at Westpark Cemetery, where President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy. Ramaphosa was in the afternoon leading a delegation of officials and senior leaders at the late struggle stalwart’s home in Joburg, to convey the party’s condolences. Mashatile said Duarte’s administration knowledge and experience would be sorely missed as the party will from, September, be preparing for national conference. ALSO READ: Jessie Duarte gets special official funeral “Comrade Jessie was the pillar of our administration. So indeed, we are facing serious challenges. We’ll have to make sure we reorganise ourselves properly to fill that gap. “No doubt we will have to strengthen the work we do at the head office. And of course, we are proud of the work she did. She leaves behind a legacy of discipline, of commitment to service.” The treasurer general has been filling Duarte’s role in the secretary office since she went on medical leave after assuming secretary general duties, following Ace Magashule’s suspension. Mashatile said the office would have been stronger in her presence. The ANC has declared a week-long mourning period and a memorial service has been scheduled for Thursday, 21 July. Meanwhile, condolences from political parties kept pouring in on Sunday afternoon for the family of the struggle icon. The EFF described Duarte as fierce, firm and forthright, who’d paid her dues in the liberation struggle and who would be remembered fondly by many young men and women who passed through her guidance. Cope spokesman Dennis Bloem said her death was a sad loss for the country. “Some of us in Cope have worked with Comrade Jessie during the struggle against apartheid. She was always in the forefront. When we were launching the United Democratic Front, Comrade Jessie was there.” Through his foundation, former president Jacob Zuma conveyed his condolences to the family and undertook to share his memories of her at a later stage. Speaking to journalists outside Duarte’s home, Magashule paid tribute to her guidance and neutral stance in the party’s rival factions.