THE African National Congress (ANC) Women’s League’s structures and branches have collapsed. The league’s national task team has admitted they would have to be resuscitated in order to elect new leadership. On Tuesday 12 July, team co-ordinator Maropene Ramokgopa admitted to reporters at a press conference at Luthuli House in Joburg that reports handed to the team indicated the league was dead in the water. This was because the terms of many structures had expired, had to be disbanded and activities could not be held during the pandemic. “We do see that there is no organisation, and structures and branches will have to be audited so branch meetings can be held,” she said. Ramokgopa said the team had its first meeting on Monday, during which a 15-member national working team was elected, which included former National Assembly speaker Baleke Mbete and former league president Bathabile Dlamini. Ramakgopa said the working team would be electing delegates to represent the league at the ANC national policy conference at the end of July. “Guided by the terms of reference given to us by the ANC NEC, the immediate task is to appoint new structures where their mandate has lapsed. ANCWL members are encouraged to continue with recruitment,” she said. Asked about whether the working team had reflected on President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala saga, Mbete said their first meeting dealt with how the league would be revived. She said it was vital to deal with matters at hand and not be distracted by controversy. Mbete said she was taken aback by her appointment but she had to answer the call as a dedicated member who had spent 50 years in the ANC. Mbete said she was retiring from politics after her campaign to become the party’s first female president fizzled ahead of the 2017 elective conference. “I was surprised and thought they had to be joking but when I realised it was serious, I had to be sober about it,” she said. National fundraiser Maqueen Letsoha-Mathae said they had to go back to the league’s provincial structures and get them functioning again.