THE royal family faction opposing King Misuzulu is living in fear. They claim an unknown induna is spreading false accusations about them. The late King Goodwill Zwelithini’s brothers, Prince Vulindlela, Prince Mbonisi and Prince Mathuba called a media briefing in Durban, KZN, on Thursday, 21 July. Prince Vulindlela said it was time they talked about the person calling himself an induna and his secretary, who are going to newspapers claiming there is war brewing while they are trying to fix what is happening in their home. “These people claim we are brewing a war against our son. “Isn’t it the father’s responsibility to bring their son to book if he sees his son going astray?“We must put it on record that In our home, we were brought up with respect” he said. Prince Mthuba appealed to the police commissioner and minister to intervene as they don’t feel safe. “These people know us very well, but we don’t know themThis man calls himself the secretary of the induna yet we don’t even know him,” he said. ALSO READ | MEC: I am not a tsotsi! He said they are in pain because these people claim they have deep hate for King Misuzulu. “How can we hate our own son? Even our late brother wouldn’t be happy hearing that, so we are hurt,” he said. but we need to be seen as though we are okay and everything is fine with us. Today we are disregarded as though we are not here,” he said. He further said there are politicians meddling in royal house matters. ALSO READ | MOROTO OUTRAGE: Student expelled from varsity “When talking about the politicians we all know that it’s Zulu Monarch Traditional Prime Minister Mangosuthu Buthelezi is disturbing the royal house a lot,” he said. Prince Mbonisi said another thing that must be known is that a king can only be appointed by the family and nobody else. This comes after President Cyril Ramaphosa recognised Prince Misuzulu as Zulu king in March. “As the family we are still planning who will be the Zulu king. Only the family is allowed or has the right to appoint the king,” he said. Early in July, Prince Mbonisi went to court, claiming King Misuzulu was unfit for the throne. But the king has since dismissed the claims.