THREE suspects appeared at the Emalahleni Magistrate's
Court on Friday, 08 July 2022 on charges of being in possession of suspected
stolen property as well as housebreaking implements. Their appearance follows an incident which
occurred on 07 July 2022 at about 01h00 am whereby security officers from CSC
Virtual Guarding responded to a panic signal from a client in Modelpark,
Witbank. Police spokesman Colonel Donald Mdhluli said in a
statement, “On the said day,
security officers noticed some people allegedly trying to steal cables from a
local Council Electrical Substation in Witbank. “A team of a local neighborhood watch group from
Modelpark swiftly responded where upon arrival at the scene, the suspects
probably became aware of their presence and then ran into an open field nearby. “The security officers as well as the
neighborhood watch group jointly resumed with patrolling the area whereby at
around 01h30 am, they noticed something sinister, a grey BMW traveling along
Mandela Road in Witbank at that time of the morning.” Mdluli said the vehicle was requested to stop by
the team but the driver ignored them and fled instead however the car was
finally cornered at Ben Fleur Boulevard Shopping Centre in Witbank. “In the meantime, members from Witbank SAPS were
notified about the developments and upon arrival, a search was conducted on the
three occupants as well as the vehicle. During the search, police found several
items including housebreaking implements, suspected stolen properties as well
as a toy gun inside the vehicle,” he said. Mdluli added, “The three suspects, Musa Mabasa
(28), Alex Khoza (31), and Mandla Nkosi (33) were then arrested for possesion
of suspected stolen properties and housebreaking implements. More charges could
be added against them as the investigation continues. During their court
appearance, the matter was postponed until 15 July 2022 for further
investigation meanwhile the suspects were remanded in custody. The Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in
Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela has appreciated the
excellent work done by the team consisting of neighborhood watch group in
conjunction with the security officers as they worked together with the
local police in Witbank. 