ESONA Hadi (22) from Khayelitsha in Cape Town has been overwhelmed by the love she’s been getting from people after her shack went up in flames on 29 June. The incident happened after her six-year-old brother burnt the shack while playing a “prayer game” with his friends. The kids lit up a candle, which ended up falling on the bed and causing the fire. Esona was not home at the time of the incident. “Since the day Daily Sun wrote my story, lots of people also shared it. Many people have come forward to assist me. I have so far received two beds, clothes and groceries,” she said. On Thursday, 7 July, GOOD party councillor and businesswoman Philiswa Marman visited Esona. She bought her groceries, a two-plate stove, kettle and shoes, among other things. Marman said when she heard about the incident, she knew that she had to do something. “We must look after one another and that is what we call ubuntu. She lost everything in the fire. She is unemployed and orphaned, so she needs support from all of us. “I’m not a councillor in this area but I came as a resident of Khayelitsha to help another resident that is in distress,” she said. Marman promised to give Esona and her brother R500 on the 27th of every month as a way to support them until they get back on their feet. Esona said she is grateful for all the support. “I was not expecting this kind of support but people showed me love. I’m forever grateful. Those who have helped me, I want God to bless them even more,” said Esona. She is also grateful that a Good Samaritan has pledged to buy school uniform for her brother. “We depend on the grant, so I was having a serious headache about how I was going to buy his uniform and clothes because we lost everything in the fire,” she said. Esona looks after her brother and her three-year-old child. Her mother passed away in 2019 and since then, Esona has been fending for herself, her little brother and her own child. She will now try to apply for an ID and other documents that were lost in the fire.