ABONGILE Sobantu is pleading with Mzansi to help him fulfil his dream of going to Spain for soccer trials in September. The 24-year-old from Crossroads in Cape Town said he had been playing soccer since he was five.He has the opportunity to go to Spain for trials in September but he needs R30 000. Abongile, who is unemployed, believes that going to the trials will take him one step closer to becoming a professional footballer. “I’m calling on anyone who can assist to come forward. “I have always prayed for such an opportunity and now that it’s here, I cannot let it go. The only challenge is money. “I need to get the visa and the ticket for the trip,” he said. ALSO READ | PICS: Mob kills Tshepang (15) for 'stealing' food Abongile said growing up he played for kasi teams but when he was 13, he started playing for Old Mutual Football Academy. When he was 16, he started playing for Chippa United’s Under-16 team. The attacking midfielder said he saw his dream fade when the team moved to the Eastern Cape. “When they got promoted to the PSL, the senior team left Cape Town and the juniors were left here. “My career then started to slow down,” he said. ALSO READ | SOLLY: Prison saved my life “If Chippa didn’t move to the Eastern Cape, I probably would have been a professional player by now.”  I just hope this upcoming opportunity will be my breakthrough.”  Grassy Park United coach, who coaches Abongile now, said: “he knew him while he was still a young boy. “I’m the one who took him to the trials with the old Mutual Academy which he succeeded. He also played for me when I was coaching at Chippa. I still work with him today because of his talent. Abongile is a great goal scorer. “I believe that the opportunity he got to go to Spain would change his career.” He is a great goal scorer and I believe that he will deliver at the trials in Spain,” he said. The coach urged anyone who can assist him to contribute. Abongile said he was working hard at the gym to make sure if he got to Spain, he would be fit enough to impress at the trials. “He just needs support. I think we can have a future Bafana Bafana star in Abongile. He is committed to the game,” said Mzuzu. “He is a star and he will not disappoint, he is a hardworking player,” he added.