DAINE Klate is not shaking in his boots as he embarks on an unpredictable journey as Chippa United’s head coach. The pocket-sized coach, who was promoted from the club’s DStv Diski Challenge team after the Chilli Boys had a fall out with Kurt Lentjies who was earmarked for the head coach’s position, said he will not keep his bags close to the door considering the club’s habit of hiring and firing coaches. He said he understands what is expected from him, as he takes charge, with his opening match of the 2022-23 DStv Premiership season against SuperSport United at Lucas Moripe Stadium on 7 August. Ironically, Klate and United’s returnee coach, Gavin Hunt, are very close, with Klate referring to the former Kaizer Chiefs coach as his football father. Hunt also has a history with Chippa, where he was sacked last December. Klate’s appointment came as a huge shock to the football community, and now it remains to be seen for how long he’ll stay in the job, as his boss, Siviwe “Chippa” Mpengesi, is trigger-happy and can release a bullet at any given time. In the club’s 12-year history, Chippa has had 18 different coaches. Klate, one of the most decorated players during his playing days having won every PSL trophy on offer with different clubs, said he knows that he will not last if they fail to get the required results. Klate amassed 280 PSL appearances in his playing days, scoring 42 goals. “First team is results orientated, a big challenge for any coach,” said the former Orlando Pirates player. “It’s not about next week. It’s about the first game you have to get three points. I fully understand that. “If the results are not coming, then there would be trouble.” The 37-year-old is a product of Gqeberha, born and raised in Gelvandale in the coastal city, and is a former Glenville Celtic amateur player. When his playing stint with Chippa ended at the end of a 2018-19 season, where he made 14 appearances, he opted to pursue a coaching career. He led the Diski Challenge team to top four finish for the first time in the club’s history. Added Klate: “I was still enjoying (my time) as Diski coach, but the club felt I’m ready to be promoted. It is a challenge, but someone has to coach the senior team, and I am a local boy. “I am not packing any bags because I’m still in the same club, same city, and I have nothing to lose.” Chippa are currently in Durban where they’re having their pre-season training camp.