NEWLY promoted DStv Premiership Richards Bay Richards Bay found themselves in a crisis when they had to form a reserve side to take part in the DStv Diski Challenge. The Natal Rich Boyz, who won the GladAfrica Championship (now the Motsepe Foundation Championship), did not have a reserve side last season but need one to compete with the other Premiership reserve sides in the Diski Challenge this coming season. The club was forced to open trials for talented youngsters in KZN to try their luck. James Dlamini, a Bay technical member involved in the selection process, told SunSport that the atmosphere has been amazing. “The trials have been going well so far, and even the municipalities are proud of what we’re doing. We’re the first team to host trials at five different venues in this region,” said Dlamini. “These young players came in large numbers, even though we had to reject some but the hospitality was still great and I believe we will be able to get a formidable team from these boys.” The final selection will be at Empangeni on 12 August. “We will make the final selection on that weekend where we will select players from the five squads we chose from the communities we visited, and I’m proud that we’ll be giving talented boys a chance,” said Dlamini. Every young footballer dreams of playing professionally, and when there’s too much desperation, the door opens for criminals who take advantage of some of these boys by pretending to be Richards Bay officials and scamming their parent’s hard-earned money. Fortunately, the syndicate was immediately reported to the cops and social media platforms. “It’s a shame that there are people who would take advantage of these kids by promising them heaven on earth and rip-off their parents,” Dlamini added. “There were many kids who came to try out and we had to reject many of them. It became even harder when we had to deal with a circulating scam that took advantage of our trials. We’ve already notified people on our social media platforms and police to be aware of this and be careful not to be taken advantage of.”