IKAGENG police are investigating cases of kidnapping, robbery, double murder, as well as an inquest docket following incidents that occurred in Ikageng and Klerksdorp, North West, over the past weekend. Colonel Adéle Myburgh said on 1 July, a 32-year-old man overpowered and disarmed his male colleague, aged 47, in Mbobi Street, Ikageng, following an argument. She said after disarming his colleague, he pointed him with his own firearm. “The man allegedly instructed the victim to call his (suspect) 31-year-old girlfriend. The latter arrived a short while later in her Volkswagen Polo, driven by a male companion, aged 30. “Shortly after stopping, the suspect walked towards the vehicle and allegedly fired two shots towards the man and removed him out of the vehicle. “He then instructed his colleague to get into the back of the vehicle and drove off,” she said. Myburgh added: “He stopped at an intersection in Bathoeng Street and instructed his colleague to get out of the car and drove off with his girlfriend. Police were called to the murder scene and the search for the Volkswagen Polo began.” Myburgh said on 2 July, members of the Flying Squad received information that the sought Volkswagen Polo was travelling on the Ottosdal/Hartbeesfontein Road. “The vehicle was spotted but it sped off, leading to a car chase. The driver of the Polo pointed the police officers with a firearm, thus, prompting the members to fire a few shots. The driver ultimately pulled off the road but was found with a bullet wound to his head. “Emergency Medical Rescue Services were called and the suspect was taken to a local hospital where he was declared dead on arrival,” said Myburgh. Furthermore, police also found the body of the 31-year-old woman inside the vehicle in the front passenger seat with head injuries. She was also declared dead on the scene by paramedics. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Sello Kwena was shocked to learn of this tragic incident and called for an amicable solution to problems, rather than resorting to violence.