THERE WAS a time when Andile Mpisane and his ex-bae, DJ Sithelo Shozi, shared their love in public. But that seems like distant history. There is no longer any love left between the Royal AM chairman and Sithelo. THIS WEEK, SITHELO DISPLAYED DIRTY LAUNDRY FOR THE WORLD TO SEE ON SOCIAL MEDIA. Businesswoman Shauwn Mkhize, aka MaMkhize, who is Andile’s mum, is caught in the middle of the battle, as Sithelo claimed she was present when some of it happened. Daily Sun can reveal that Sithelo opened a case of defamation against Andile in March last year. This revelation follows shocking claims that were made by Sithelo against her former lover on Tuesday.  During her live Instagram chat, one of her supporters asked her what lessons she took from her relationship with Andile. In her response, she accused Andile of assaulting her. In an exclusive interview with Daily Sun, Sithelo spoke about opening a case. ALSO READ | ‘Kelly knew exactly who Senzo was!’ “I only opened a case of defamation at Durban Central. I didn’t open a case of assault because I was trying to protect his image. I didn’t know what happened to the case until Thursday 7 July. “The police told me the case was dismissed in court. I don’t understand why because I was never informed and I get the feeling that it was never investigated,” said Sithelo. She said she was scared for her life. “I don’t know what’s going to happen after this, but I am planning to open a case of assault. I am communicating with my lawyer,” she said.  KZN police spokeswoman Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that a case of defamation of character was opened. “The docket was taken to court for decision, where it was declined for prosecution,” said Gwala. In a statement, MaMkhize responded, saying: “I have been made aware of the allegations made against my family by Sithelo Shozi on her Instagram account, which have since been deleted.” She said she has always taken a strong stance against GBV. “I don’t take these accusations lightly. I do not and will never condone violence in any form,” said MaMkhize.  “I would like to state that neither myself nor my family have been witness to any alleged abuse against Sithelo, and would further like to highlight that these allegations are false and defamatory.” She said as a result of the serious allegations, the matter has been referred to their attorneys. “It’s of the utmost importance that we let the law takes its course in this regard. Furthermore, false accusations do tremendous damage to victims of real assaults,” she said. Sithelo said that she received the letter from MaMkhize’s attorneys. “They are demanding an apology and that I must retract everything I said. “I am not going to comment on the letter because my legal representative is taking care of it,” she said. Daily Sun could not reach Andile. 