HIGH litigation costs under suspended Public Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane forced investigators to work from the office as there was no money to travel to communities. This was revealed by the head of the public protector’s Free State office, Sphelo Hamilton Samuel, on Wednesday, 27 July before Parliament’s Section 194 Committee. The committee is investigating suspended Mkhwebane’s fitness to hold office. Samuel said he was concerned about the R10 million budget for legal fees. He said the actual amount was much higher. “We were slowly getting more litigious,” he said. He said a year after Mkhwebane took office, she began cutting costs. ALSO READ: State capture tops ANC policy conference agenda “Travelling was not allowed. It literally stopped. We effectively did our investigations from our offices. We couldn’t go and do inspections or meet with complainants. Investigations were impacted by the high litigation costs,” he said. Samuel said Mkhwebane used an iron fist in running the office, which had a negative impact on staff morale. He said staff were constantly forced to account for their investigations and were threatened with disciplinary action if they failed to do so. Samuel was recently reinstated with R1,5 million back pay after being dismissed in December 2020. He was subjected to a disciplinary hearing by Mkhwebane, who charged him with several allegations of misconduct. The charges followed a letter Samuel had written to Parliament in 2020, requesting an investigation into the conduct of Mkhwebane as well as pointing out financial mismanagement at the institution. He also wrote to the acting CEO at the public protector’s office, asking Mkhwebane to resign following scathing court judgments against her. Disciplinary charges came a few days later and he was suspended and subsequently dismissed. He was accused of assault, which allegedly happened in 2011. On Tuesday, Mkhwebane was in the Western Cape High Court challenging her suspension. The judgment was reserved. Samuel said he asked for Mkhwebane to resign as they were losing cases. “This made it appear we did not know what we are doing,” he said.