Radio station, Alex FM’s music manager, DJ Jorontinah has been shot dead. The radio station announced the news on Friday morning, 15 July saying the 32-year-old DJ whose real name is Joshua Mbatha and his colleagues were stopped by three gunmen on their way back home on Thursday, 14 July. According to the statement, the gunmen took their phones and shoes before shooting Jorontinah in the chest. “It is with great pain to inform you of the sad news of the passing on of our staff member Joshua Mbatha,” read the statement. “DJ Jorontinah (32) as he was affectionately known, was the Music Manager at Alex FM. He was on his way home with two of his colleagues Sammy Ramodike and Matome Mookanedi, when they were stopped by about three gunmen at 7th Selbourne. They took their phones and shoes before shooting Joshua in the chest,” continued the statement. Jorontinah was confirmed dead at Masakhane Clinic in Alexandra at around 9pm on Thursday, 14 July. ALSO READ : Repo man’s after Nale’s BMW! “We are with his father and other family members now at the clinic. Station Manager is also with his team comforting each other. Let's keep the family and Josh's colleagues in our prayers. May his soul rest in peace,” they wrote. Fans on social media also expressed their sadness about Jorontinah’s death and some pushed that the community of Alexandra take a stand against crime. Facebook user, Martin Mabala wrote: “May his soul rest in peace, Alexandra is bad, hardly a day goes by without hearing this brutal killing, we need to petition Minister to bring Amaberete back.” Another user, Paila Chauke called the community to wake up. “The good die young. Heartfelt condolences to his family and to the radio. I don't mean to sound negative, but how long must we suffer under the hands of the criminals while we do nothing? Community lets wake up. We don't know who is next,” he wrote. Emilia Duarte-Potgieter sent condolences to his family and friends. “Another senseless killing, RIP and condolences to the family and friends,” she wrote. 