A SUSPECTED tsotsi was gunned down by a tavern owner at his business premises in KaBokweni outside Mbombela, Mpumalanga on 3 July at about 11.50pm. “Three armed men entered a certain tavern in KaBokweni and held the patrons at gunpoint, instructing them to lie down. It is said that they robbed the victims of their personal belongings, which include cellphones and cash before attempting to flee. It is further alleged that the tavern owner, aged 39, became aware of what was happening and he drew his firearm and fatally shot one of the men. Meanwhile, the other alleged robbers are said to have fled the scene,” said Brigadier Selvy Mohlala in a statement. “Police at KaBokweni as well as the paramedics were informed about the incident and upon their arrival, they found the body of the alleged suspect with bullet wounds on the upper body as well as some of the alleged stolen cellphones belonging to the patrons. He was certified dead by the paramedics,” he said “Police are probing the incident and a robbery case has been opened with an additional probe of an inquest. The circumstances surrounding the shooting will also form part of the investigation. The firearm that has been reportedly used in this incident has been ceased for further investigation. The deceased has not yet been identified,” he said. He said police were still looking for the remaining alleged robbers. ALSO READ | Madala's whistling 4-5 Mpumalanga police commissioner Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Manamela has raised concern about violent crimes in the province where victims are robbed of their personal items and then sold to others. “Members of the public should not hesitate to report such individuals who sell suspected stolen property. People are advised not to buy such items because by doing so, they will be helping criminals to flourish in their market and stand a chance of being arrested if they are found in possession of stolen items,” she said. Anyone with information that may assist in this investigation should CrimeStop on 08600 10111 or alternatively send information via the MYSAPS app. All received information will be treated as confidential and callers may opt to remain anonymous.