WHEN neighbours from Amaoti, north of Durban saw that a woman from the area who was pregnant didn’t have a baby, they became suspicious. Their suspicions pushed them into asking her what she did to the baby because all along they saw her pregnant but all of a sudden there was no child and her stomach was small. According to one of the neighbours, on Tuesday they asked the 25-year-old woman about the baby and she told them that the baby had died when she gave birth. “We then realised that she was lying. We called other neighbours and demanded that she tells us where the baby was. We didn’t believe that the baby died just like that. We live in close vicinity and we know each other very well. So nobody saw her leaving her shack to go to hospital. And she would have also told some people if she was going to hospital,” she said. She said they then knew that something was fishy. “One of the neighbours then said she was told by some people that the woman was seen digging at the back of her shack. We took her to the area where she was digging and asked her to dig up because we realised that she had buried the baby there. And indeed our suspicious were true. She dug up the shallow grave and took out the baby,” she said. Another neighbour said it was a baby boy and fully grown. “It was such a sad moment having to watch that process. I don’t understand why she had to bury her own baby like that. If she didn’t want the baby she should have given it up for adoption,” said the neighbour. She said they believe that she aborted the baby and buried it herself. KZN police spokeswoman Constable Thenjisiwe Ngcobo said the Inanda police were called out to Amaoti where the residents reportedly apprehended a 25-year-old woman who was suspected of killing her baby. Ngcobo said on arrival at the scene, police established that the residents had forced the woman to dig up the shallow grave where the remains of her baby were buried. “The woman was arrested and detained at Inanda Police Station where she was charged with birth concealment, while the body of the baby was transported to a local mortuary,” said Ngcobo She said the woman will appear in the Ntuzuma Magistrates Court soon. “It’s alleged that the woman was pregnant and when she was found without a baby, the neighbours became suspicious and interrogated her. She later told neighbours that the child had died,” said Ngcobo