BANYANA Banyana goalkeeper Andile “Sticks” Dlamini is a woman of many talents – now she plans to release an album in the no distance future. Dlamini is not only the best shot-stopper at the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations currently underway in Morocco having conceded just two goals, but she has an incredible voice that has seen her lead the chorus in the dressing room. Whenever she plays for her club Mamelodi Sundowns Ladies, or while on national duty with Banyana, she’s the lead singer and the rest are backing vocalists. Dlamini has always inspired her teammates to keep their spirits high by singing her lungs out. She also keeps her teammates and fans on social media entertained with her silky dance moves. The 29-year-old keeper told SunSport from Casablanca in Morocco that her passion to sing started at a tender age while growing up in Daveyton, Ekurhuleni. “It’s a voice that I was given by God, and I am grateful for it,” she said. “I am a professional artist and striving to become big one day. When God gives you the talent, you must use it. “It depends also on who wants to use it, so I raised my hand and said please highlight all my talents so I can use them all. “This is in my blood. I have always enjoyed singing and it’s something that I loved from a tender age. Some people don’t even know that I am a professional singer, and I hope that one day I will release an album.” Dlamini is also a shrewd businesswoman as she also owns a barbershop, where she currently lives in Soweto. “I cut hair, I am a musician, and I am a coach. You can mention them all because I believe that each and everyone is destined for greatness to push whatever they want, as long as they put their mind to it. You can achieve whatever that you want.” Dlamini is expected to play a crucial role to keep hosts Morocco strikers at bay when the countries battle it out in the Awcon final at Stade Prince Moulay, in Rabat on Saturday. “I would like to see South Africans rejoicing with this trophy and I pray to God that we win it,” she added. -Maxwell Ramaru is in Morocco as a guest of Sasol, Banyana Banyana sponsor.