A SOWETO man is tired of amadlozi showing up during his tlof tlof time. He said he refused to accept his calling because it destroyed the lives of some of his family members. He also revealed that his mum hasn’t been the same since she went to thwasa for sangoma initiation. The 51-year-old man from Diepkloof in Soweto told the People’s Paper that his mum is always sick and sometimes she loses her mind a little. “I told myself I’d never thwasa and I’ll stick to that for rest of my life,” he said. He said eight years ago he started getting sick but doctors told him he was healthy. ALSO READ: Audi brings digital innovation to drivers “I knew I was now dealing with the consequences of rejecting my calling.” He said he used to love women but now he fears them, because he said they’ve given him the name, “Tlof Tlof Dlozi”. “It’s very offensive because it isn’t just my friends, people around my kasi seem to know about this problem,” he said. He said this has negatively affected his family, especially his two daughters, because some teenagers were teasing them too. He said he couldn’t remember how many girlfriends he lost in the past two years. “I’d say amadlozi are very smart because they realised that I hate this sangoma thing and now they’re blocking my favourite thing, which is poking,” he said. “I believe that I’m supposed to poke for the rest of my life and this is killing me.” He’s asking for SunReaders to intervene but said they shouldn’t tell him to thwasa. “I’ve been through a lot and I’ve lost the loves of my life because of this,” he said. His friend (49) from Mofolo, also in Soweto, said he used to make fun of his situation but he didn’t know that it would end up being this serious. “I’m just sad to see him like this.” One of the man’s ex-lovers, who has now turned into a friend, said she was very scared when she saw this man acting up, moments away from tlof tlof. “I was scared he would do something to me because he looked violent,” she said. Sangoma Joseph Dungamanzi has advised the man to try and communicate with his ancestors. “You can go to sangomas but you’ll end up running out of money. “This is something that you need to deal with through family and your ancestors,” said Dungamanzi.