 THE late African National Congress (ANC) deputy secretary-general, Jessie Duarte, has been hailed as a gift to humanity. Speaking at her memorial service held at Joburg City Hall on Thursday, 21 July, speaker after speaker said she was a disciplined, hardworking and committed activist. ANC Gauteng deputy chairwoman, Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko, said Duarte was someone who advocated for freedom for all. “As a nation, we have lost someone who was not only a gift to us, as South Africa, but to humanity,” she said. She said her death was a bitter pill to swallow. Former speaker of the National Assembly and ANC Women’s League member, Baleka Mbete, said Duarte worked hard for the ANC family. She said many people commented on Duarte as having had a very high level of discipline. “As we bid her farewell, let each ANC branch re-commit to a code of discipline, which will make her smile,” said Mbete. Party National Executive Committee member, Dakota Legoete, said he was optimistic that the party would take a leaf out of Duarte’s commitment to the ANC and self-correct. He said he wished some of the comrades could know that people come first because the ANC did not exist for leaders. “The sooner some of us in the leadership smell the coffee, the better. Some of this self-centered attitude we have seen doesn’t work for the ANC and doesn’t work for our country,” Legoete. He said Duarte lived for her people and her country. “She would not support any faction. She would not support any division. She would not support any patriarchy or any back biting. She was clear and resolute,” he said. Duarte died in the early hours of Sunday morning, 17 July, following her long battle with cancer. She took ill in November last year, which forced her to take leave and never returned to office. She was 68 years old when she died. Duarte was buried on the same day in line with Muslim rites at West Park Cemetery. Reverend Frank Chikane said Duarte stood for the truth. “She worked with everybody and made sure we achieve our freedom. And after freedom she stood again. “It was very difficult, but she played her part and we would like to thank her for this extraordinary role she played,” he said. Former president Jacob Zuma sent his condolences to the family and described her as someone who actively promoted the unity and integrity of the ANC. He said she championed the agenda of gender equality and non-racialism in society and in the ANC. Zuma said he was deeply disturbed. “Our key comrades have been dying at the rate that we have not seen before,” he said. “This has indeed been worrying that in a short space of time, so many comrades have died without being very sick at all. “Suddenly, they get sick and die, why? Is this normal? Certainly, it leaves many of us worried and suspicious. “I hope there is no foul play and I believe one day, if there was foul play, we will get to know,” said Zuma. 