DELINQUENT Dudu Myeni has been fined R120 000 for naming a protected witness at the Zondo Commission. The former South African Airways (SAA) board chairwoman pleaded guilty to a charge of defeating or obstruction of administration of justice in the Joburg Magistrates Court on Wednesday, 27 July. The sentence carried a two-year imprisonment with an option of a fine. Myeni opted to pay the fine in two instalments. In her plea, read by her lawyer Nqabayethu Buthelezi, she told the court that she pleads guilty to the main charge levelled against her freely and voluntarily and without any undue influenced while being under sound and sober senses. “The accused confirms the terms of this agreement and the admission of the allegations made on the charge sheet. The accused admits that she freely and voluntarily entered into this agreement without having been influenced by anyone, and while at all relevant time been assisted by her legal representatives,” said Buthelezi. ALSO READ: Kidnappers demand R30k ransom Myeni said she was aware that on 27 February 2021, commission chairman Chief Justice Zondo had ordered that the name of a certain witness was not to be disclosed or published in any manner. She said she had no justification for her action though, which, the identity of Mr X was revealed when she testified in November last year. The witness had told the inquiry that he and Myeni swindled and laundered millions from Mhlatuze Water when she was board chair. Magistrate Simon Radasi asked Myeni if she confirmed the by her lawyer read in court. “Yes, your worship,” she responded. In mitigation of sentence, Buthelezi told the court that his client was a first time offender with no previous conviction. He said she’d be turning 60 years old in October this year. “She is not gainfully employed and has not earn any income since 2017. She relies on support from her family,” he said. Buthelezi said the banks terminated her accounts because they see Myeni as someone who posses reputational risk to them. The high court in Pretoria declared her a delinquent for life in May 2020. Buthelezi said the court should show mercy because Myeni was remorseful and cooperated with authorities. Radasi accepted the plea and half of the sentence was suspended for a period of fives years, on condition that she’s not convicted of similar offence during the period of suspension. Myeni said she’d be able to pay the fine in two instalments of R30 000. The first instalment was payable on 27 July and the second would be paid on or before 29 August.