DESPITE the collapse of state-owned enterprises under its governance, the African National Congress (ANC) still believes these companies must be under government control. In its discussion documents on economic transformation, the ANC proposes that the government must maintain its role in key economic sectors while questioning the loyalty of the private sector in trying to grow the economy. With the party having made many promises to upgrade infrastructure, the party continues to believe these programmes will be key in developing the economy. However, the discussion documents don’t say what changes will be made to ensure these programmes are really implemented, leaving the question for delegates to tackle. It’s also not clear whether the party is inviting private companies on board. This comes after warnings from unions that the government intends to privatise entities such as Eskom. ALSO READ | MAMFUNDISI: Ujola with my pastor hubby! “The ANC and the democratic state must also ask how we act more effectively to mobilise the private sector behind the objectives of economic transformation. “On its part, the private sector needs to ask itself whether it has not been somewhat lethargic and perhaps even pessimistic in its assessment of the trajectory of growth in our country and the rest of the sub-continent, thus falling short when major positive changes start to manifest,” the discussion documents read. The ANC’s policy conference kicks off at Nasrec in Joburg on Friday, 29 July, following its failure to hold the national general council due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Some provinces earlier pushed for the conference to be turned into a national general council, which could have led to opponents of President Cyril Ramaphosa tabling a motion for his removal. Treasurer-general Paul Mashatile rejected the calls, saying a general council and a policy conference were not organised in the same way. However, influential provinces such as KZN, Limpopo and Mpumalanga are expected to use the conference to try and get the step-aside rule to be scrapped.