As
the red berets celebrated their ninth anniversary on Saturday at Dr Petrus
Molemela Stadium in Mangaung, Free State, EFF leader Julius Malema told his
supporters the party was here to stay. "When
we came to Mangaung, we knew we were coming back home because this is the home
of the EFF. And we knew we were going to pack this stadium," Malema said. He
expressed his disappointment at the lack of service delivery, highlighting
residents' struggle with sewage issues. "It
is unfortunate that Mangaung, as a historic place of the EFF, has got no
municipality. This municipality, as of today, is called the 'sewer
municipality' because wherever you go, you are faced with sewage problems. The
municipality has fallen," Malema said. Malema
laid out his plans of how it would tackle some of South Africa's most pressing
issues. He
said people in Mangaung had voiced their plight, but nothing had been
done. In
light of this, Malema assured supporters his party 'would be the solution to
the many problems people faced in South Africa'. He said, “As of
today, you do not speak of the ANC but we speak on how we can bring in the EFF.
You no longer speak of how they disappointed you, but we speak of solutions.
When someone says they have problems with sewage, bring in EFF to solve the
issues. If someone says we don't have jobs, don't speak of how the ANC has
abandoned you but how we can put the EFF in power to see what happens.” READ: MALEMA calls for police to 'shoot-to-kill' There
was a celebratory mood at the stadium, as supporters in a sea of red EFF
overalls and T-shirts danced and sang struggle songs. Malema
expressed his gratitude to the supporters who'd ensured the party's survival. "Many
have said how EFF would die, and it would never make it to a year. The
doomsayers said it would vanish into thin air. Little did they know we are
permanent residents of South Africa and Africa, and we are not going
anywhere." He
also said giving up was not an option and they weren't fighting against the
ANC, but for socialism to be realised, "not only in South Africa but all
over Africa". 