THE state has added an additional charge of conspiracy to commit murder to the charges of the three men accused of killing Hillary Gardee. The trio, Sipho Mkhatshwa (39), Philemon Lukhele (47) and Mduduzi Gama (52) appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrates Court on Thursday, 7 July. They face charges of rape, murder, conspiracy, kidnapping, possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition as well as defeating the ends of justice. State prosecutor Advocate Ntsika Mpolweni said the state will add an additional charge to the three accused, which is conspiracy to commit murder. “On our last appearance in the magistrates court in Mbombela, all three accused conspired to commit a crime of murder. At this stage, the state is not going to disclose the name of the possible person to be killed due to issues of safety,” he said. However, accused two and three’s legal representative, Ncobizitha Mlilo, objected the additional charge. “This is the first time I am hearing of this charge. We can take an exception on that charge, but if the state charges somebody, they disclose what it is you are charging the person with. You cannot say we are charging you with theft, but will tell you later what you stole,” he said. Earlier on, the dead woman’s family representative, Onalenna Thaga, requested to put in an application to record the court proceedings live. She told the court that this was to allow the dead woman’s maternal and paternal family members, who are outside the country, to follow the proceedings. However, Magistrate Eddie Hall rejected the application. “To start of with, with the nature of these proceedings, we are busy with a bail application. This court is not going to pronounce even at the end of the bail application whether the accused is guilty or not. “I am certain the matter is still under investigation and as the state you have a right to add charges,” he said. The suspects will be back in court on 22 July for the continuation of Mkhatshwa’s bail application and for accused two and three to also bring in their bail application.