FAMILY, friends and residents of Dlamini have gathered to celebrate the life of six-year-old Khayalethu Magadla, who died after falling into a manhole. Khayalethu’s body was recovered on Saturday, 2 July, near Eldorado Park Cemetery, by a rescue and recovery team. Joburg EMS spokeswoman Nana Radebe-Kgiba said Khayalethu was found from the splitter chamber on the first manhole towards the samp situated near the cemetery. His mum, Smangele Magadla, said she didn’t know how her life would go on without her bundle of joy. She said it seemed like she always had a need to beg God for Khayalethu’s life because he was born with health complications.  “It was so bad that I thought I would lose him, but I prayed and God kept him for me,” said Smangele, adding that being his mum had been a blessing. “He was a happy child who would laugh all the time. He filled our home with love and joy,” she said. She revealed that on the day Khayalethu went missing, they had argued about him demanding to watch cartoons all the time. She said had she known that would be her last day seeing him, she would have made it better and cherished it.  His father, Kholekile Magadla, said a week before his son fell into the manhole, he had some fear but he could not understand where it was coming from. He said on 12 June, his wife called and told him that it was past dinner time but Khayalethu was not home. They looked for him and called residents to help. Kholekile expressed how disappointed he was with Moroka Police Station, that took seven hours to assist in opening a missing person’s case.  He said he was told that no police van was available to assist him. At around 2am, together with the community, they went back to the station to demand service. “As Khayalethu’s cousin was preparing for school, they asked him where he was and he revealed that he had fallen into a manhole while they were playing,” he said. He then called the rescue team for help, but it was slow in everything. And to top it off, it decided to close the manhole on the same day. “They basically buried my son before he could even be found,” said Kholekile.  He added that he was more devastated when told that the search had been handed over to Joburg Water. “I almost lost hope but residents really gave me strength to push,” said Kholekile.  Grandfather Sam Magadla gave thanks to residents and parties who helped with the search. “Not so long ago, we were asking for help, gathering and hosting candlelit ceremonies to find the boy. But today, we are celebrating his life.” Acting executive Mayor Councillor Ronald Harris, Soweto parliament leader Nhlanhla “Lux” Dlamini and ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba also attended the memorial service.