ALTHOUGH the African National Congress (ANC) admits failure in nipping corruption in the bud when detected, it has revealed the environment was rather fertile when it took over power. In discussion documents for the upcoming policy conference which starts on Friday, 29 July, the ANC blames the prevailing culture of corruption within state-owned companies, private companies and bantustan administrators. In the documents, the party is appealing for delegates to discuss the best ways to deal with state capture. The governing party acknowledged the advent of democracy in South Africa was an opportunity to make a decisive break with that past. It argues that through the adoption of a new democratic constitutional dispensation, the priority at the time had been to establish a new era of transparency, accountability, ethical conduct and respect for the rule of law. “However, as our 54th national conference acknowledged and as the State Capture Commission has clearly demonstrated, a culture of corruption persists within the state, political and other organisations, the business community and other sections of society,” it said. Some of the factors that have encouraged the development of such a culture included how the political transition and the culture of corruption carried over into the democratic dispensation. Also, the nature of social relations and a value system in broader society which measured success on the basis of the material possessions that individuals command. “These systemic causal factors of corruption and state capture require ongoing reflection, within our society, the better to find solutions that are effective and lasting,” said the discussion documents. The party fashioned itself as a progressive organisation committed to building unity of all South Africans, promoting economic development for the benefit of all, fighting for social justice and to eliminate the vast inequalities created by apartheid and the system of national oppression. The ANC said underpinning these goals were the values of solidarity, empathy, revolutionary morality and ethics, social justice as well as the commitment to serve. While acknowledging there were a number of findings that implicate the party either directly or implicitly as an organisation from the state capture commission, the points out that delegates would have to be deliberate on these for consideration. “Rather than be defensive on findings that are critical of the ANC, the organisation should see these as an opportunity to reflect on its conduct, policies and practices. “It should honestly discuss whether there is merit to these findings, and agree on the measures that need to be taken to address shortcomings,” it said. On findings that implicate its members, the ANC said this is a clear violation and the party’s Constitution must kick in. “Such members must face the full legal consequences of their actions. They cannot rely on the ANC for support or protection, nor may they appeal to the principle of collective responsibility. In accounting for their actions, they stand alone,” it said.