GRAVEYARD pose and a vulgar goodbye message has left Mzansi angry. A young lady who took a picture next to a coffin at an unknown graveyard has left many people angry and shocked. She’s been receiving backlash from all over Mzansi after she posted that picture with a disturbing caption. In this caption, she tells this dead man how evil he was and how much of a relief it is that he’s dead and will never wake up ever again. She further emphasized how much this man deserves to be dead and if there was something worse than death, she’d wish that upon him because of the kind of person he was. ALSO WATCH: Enyobeni tavern deaths - Here's what could have killed kids She then went on and on with the insults. Mzansi thought this was real and they’ve been reprimanding her and bashing her for her behaviour. Speaking to Daily Sun, the aspiring actress Nwabisa uNathi Hole (19) confirmed that it was just dark humour and there was no one in that coffin. She said she was shooting for a show which will soon air on DStv of which she isn’t allowed to give out the details of yet. She said they had just finished shooting a funeral scene at a secrete location and their camera man was taking pictures. She then asked him to take a picture of her standing next to that grave.  Nwabisa said that when it comes to funerals, sometimes people lie and say good things about a person who was a terrible person, so she thought she’d make a joke about it and turn this into something that should really be happening in funerals. She said she posted that because she thought it would just make people laugh. Even though some found it funny, it seems to have angered a lot of other people. “People started questioning my morals and my personality, which really hurt my feelings,” she said. Nwabisa said even though she tried to explain that it was just a shoot, some people where still coming for her character. “I kept trying to delete some of the comments but they kept coming,” she said. She told the People’s Paper that even though she’s hurt, people dragging her are actually helping her grow a thick skin. “I’m going to be in this industry for a while and this was just my starting point so I might as well learn to deal with social media trolls,” added Nwabisa.