MZANSI people should brace themselves as another celebrity boxing match is brewing. Rappers Cassper Nyovest and Priddy Ugly have challenged each other to a boxing match. Taking to social media, they have both declared that they are not scared of each other, and that they want to fight. On Tuesday, 19 July, Priddy Ugly commented on Cassper’s tweet about Slik Talk wanting a rematch and said he’s up for a boxing match. “Ek se, Abhuti Billiato, I was never scared. You hit my line and called me up about a fight. I gladly said yes, I didn’t hesitate, I didn’t stutter. “If you are “Iron Mike” for real, you can’t be fighting people who can’t fight. It seems to me like you are the scared one. You got my number,” he tweeted. Cassper responded, saying Priddy Ugly would be easy money for him because he’s bigger than him. He wrote: “I called cause I am a man of my word. You once tweeted saying you want to get in the ring with me cause everyone was ducking. ALSO READ : Shot Alex FM DJ: ‘We believe it was more than just a robbery!’ “Size wise, I’m way bigger than you. Skills wise, I am way more experienced than you. You’re easy money for me but if you’re really sure you want to do this, let’s rock!” The trash talk then began from there and they came at each other. “The BIGGER they are, the harder they fall. You speak on what you don’t know and that delusion is going to be a poor judgement call on your behalf. “Your underestimation of me is going to reveal something you were never prepared for. My advice: train a little harder from tonight,” wrote Priddy Ugly. “Enjoy, papi. It’s gonna be your last night of drinking for a while. From tomorrow, drink water only. I want the best for you,” he said. The hashtag #CassperNyovestVsPriddyUgly has since been trending and people are excited about the fight. No date has been announced yet for the fight. Cassper has already had two matches with YouTuber, Slik Talk and musician, Naak MusiQ. He won the match against Slik, but lost the one against Naak.  Ek se Abhuti Billiato, I was never scared. You hit my line & called me up about a fight & I gladly said yes, I didn’t hesitate, I didn’t stutter.If you “Iron Mike” foreal, you can’t be fighting people who can’t fight. Seems to me like you the scared one.You got my number ???? https://t.co/yY8Zb7EOcK I called cause I a man of my word. You once tweeted saying you wanna get in the ring with me cause everyone was ducking. Size wise,im way bigger than you, skill wise I am way more experienced than you. YOU EASY MONEY for me but if you really sure you wanna do this, let's rock!!! https://t.co/pRuZpm4aUD Enjoy papi, it’s gonna be your last night of drinking for a while, from tomorrow drink water only.I want the best for you. https://t.co/2iJoARzfCY 