A cop vehicle that was allegedly speeding left two teenagers dead after it lost control and ploughed into the boys, who were walking along Old Faure Road near Mfuleni on Monday, 25 July. The third boy who survived the accident was severely injured and is fighting for his life in hospital. According to onlookers, the boys, who are believed to be from Khayelitsha, were coming from school when a speeding cop’s vehicle lost control as they attempted to avoid an oncoming car. The vehicle was carrying four cops who were all not injured. “The boys were walking towards Khayelitsha when they were hit by the cop vehicle. They could not react as they only saw the car when it was already on them. The one who was injured tried to run and it helped him because he survived but he was seriously injured,” said resident Mluleki Mbanjwa. Community leader Nomusa Ntshinga from the area said they had to wait for nearly an hour for an ambulance to arrive. “It is a painful scene, the lifeless bodies were just scattered there. No parent deserves what just happened here. It’s difficult to lose a child in such a manner,” said Ntshinga. Some angry residents wanted the cops to be moered for but some leaders who were at the scene asked residents not to fight. “None of them were injured but they caused pain in the heart of a mother somewhere. Why were they speeding? If they were going slow like everyone else these kids could have survived,” said an angry resident. Cops spokesman Colonel Andre Traut confirmed the incident. “In response to your inquiry, kindly be advised that Mfuleni police are investigating a culpable homicide vehicle accident which occurred in Old Faure Road in Mfuleni this afternoon at around 3:30pm. Two teenaged male pedestrians were killed and a third one injured when they were struck by a police vehicle. “The injured person was admitted to hospital for treatment. The circumstances surrounding the accident are yet to be determined. The occupants of the police vehicle were not injured during the accident,” said Traut.