THE Covid-19 regulations may have eased, but the distractions caused by the pandemic have put a spotlight on existing socio-economic issues. On Thursday, 28 July, Journalists for Human Rights in partnership with Media Monitoring Africa hosted civil society organisations for a panel discussion focusing on Covid-19 and its impact on human rights, even more so, on the rights of women, children and vulnerable groups. The discussion also unpacked how the government and civil society have been responding to the pandemic. The pandemic hit the country in 2020, and many didn’t know what to expect and before we knew it, the country was placed under strict lockdown. Low-income earners including domestic workers were the hardest hit as they couldn’t work from home. Edward Molopi of the Socio-Economic Rights Institute said during hard lockdown, government proved that it could provide basic needs to the most vulnerable, but there’s no political will. ALSO READ | ABAFUNDISI porn shock! Molopi was referring to the temporary relief the government has been providing through special grants, and water tanks and food parcels during the stricter lockdown. Some of the challenges highlighted during the lockdown restrictions included illegal evictions, the inability for informal settlement dwellers to practice hygiene and social distancing, as well as the rise in gender-based violence cases. Furthermore, issues surrounding the Covid-19 vaccine and access to affordable medications were raised. Candice Sehuma of Doctors Without Borders said they are fighting for laws and policies for medication at an affordable price. Sehuma said we need a global system that will accommodate even local plant manufacturers to sell vaccines. Sehuma said: “You would think that the pandemic would change things but unfortunately things are seemingly the same. The system hasn’t changed. “The continent is at the mercy of high-income countries and pharmaceutical companies who are blocking the country from the ability to do things on their own,” she said.