PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa has hit back on those calling for him to step down in the wake of the Phala Phala farm robbery in Limpopo, saying that he would not be intimidated. Addressing the SACP’s 15th congress in Boksburg on Friday, 15 July, Ramaphosa said he was prepared to be held accountable, but the complaint was designed to deter him from implementing the state capture recommendations. He appealed for the nation to allow the complaint to be investigated by law enforcement authorities and for the legal process to take its course. Ramaphosa has been saying all along that he would only respond properly after law enforcement officers had investigated the matter. But calls have been echoing from political parties, and recently senior ANC member Msimang Mavuso, that he should step down. There has also been calls for a parliamentary probe for his violation of ethics code and on Thursday, the EFF vowed to mobilise other parties to impeach him. These latest developments seem to have stirred a defiant spirit within Ramaphosa. “I am prepared to be held accountable. I opted out of my own volition to appear before the integrity commission. We were meant to meet a week ago but the date did not suit all parties,” he said. He added that he and the commission would finalise the date in coming days, and he would give his side of the story.   “But, I will not allow these allegations to deter me from what needs to be done; to rebuild our economy. I will not allow this to discourage me from the work I have to do, and I will not be intimidated or distracted nor bullied into submission. As we emerge from state capture, we must be firm on the principle that no person is above the law and that everyone must be held accountable for their actions,” Ramaphosa said. He acknowledged that the criminal complaint was serious, but said as long as he was still occupying the head of state office, he would continue with his work and do so alongside the people to create jobs, tackle poverty and change the lives of people. “As president of the ANC, I will fulfil the mandate of the 54th conference to complete the fundamental renewal of the party.” He also touched on the issue of Eskom, revealing that a proposal had been tabled by Energy and Minerals Minister Gwede Mantashe for another state-owned enterprise company to produce power, which he agreed with. “Eskom has been operating as a monopoly for over 100 years. And having one company taking up the role of providing energy to the entire country poses a great risk. If it [Eskom] fails, its failure becomes a peculiar failure for the entire country. Look at China. It has a number of state-owned power providers who compete among themselves, ensuring that the price of electricity is greatly reduced.” He said in the coming days, the government would be announcing new plans to add more megawatts to the grid.