THE People’s Paper is 20 today, 1 July. Over the years, Daily Sun has given a voice to its readers, helping them with issues with Home Affairs, the police, hospitals and service delivery. SunReaders shared their views about the People’s Paper and how it has changed their lives. “This is a powerful paper,” he said. The 56-year-old from Soshanguve said as soon as he woke up in the morning, he went to the nearest shop to buy a copy. He said he had been reading the paper since it started. Amos Ndou (68) from Braamfischerville said the paper helped him find a bed when he was admitted to hospital. “The newspaper also raised my children. They received educational content from it.” Duke Khuma (51) said he started reading the paper on the first day it came out.  “For its birthday, I hope the paper will continue with its great work and fantastic sport news. I would also like to read more about substance abuse among the youth and interventions,” he said. Nompumelelo Khoza (19) from Meadowlands, Soweto, said: “I mostly read the digital platform. I find the stories hilarious. I’’d like to see more news affecting young people and opportunities for them.” Thando Masondo (22) from Meadowlands said his father introduced him to Daily Sun. “It has become one of my favourites because of the memories from my childhood,” said Thando. Given said: “We are thankful to SunSeller Fini Delibo, who always makes sure we receive our copies early.” Amukelani Mashaba (29), Meisie Ndlhovu (55) and Cecilia Mandlazi (53) from Thulamahashe said they never missed the paper. Meisie said: “I love reading local news. It has also helped me improve my English.” Amukelani said the paper helped her get a distinction in English. Patrick Masilela (33) said he started reading the paper in 2011. “It has helped me a great deal to know what is happening locally,” he said. Vusi Shakoane from Mpumalanga said : “My day is not complete without reading the paper.” Sibonoang Stenane (27) said: “I was introduced to Daily Sun by my grandmother and I have never looked back. “Although the paper is no longer available in our local shops, we are still able to follow it on social media and the website.” Madala said when they were struggling to renew their foster grant for two children, Daily Sun intervened. Buyiswa Manono said the paper gave her peace of mind by helping her find a rehab for her drug addict son. “He later ran away from rehab but the SunTeam did its job,” she said.