SOME motorists have said they will be left with no option but to turn to bicycles if the fuel prices continue to skyrocket. This after Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy Gwede Mantashe announced on Monday that the fuel prices would increase on Wednesday, 6 July. Speaking to Daily Sun, Margaret Msonza (45) from Monte Vista near Goodwood in Cape Town said she parked her car in May and is now resorting to trains. “I only drive it when I’m going to the mall and other places close to my house. I used to drive to work daily but I honestly cannot afford this anymore,” she said. She used to fill up her Toyota Yaris for less than R700 last year but now she needs R1 000. “With all these increases I haven’t got a pay rise from work, so it means the very same budget I used last year to fill up for R700 has not increased. I don’t have anywhere to get money to pay for the ever-increasing fuel price,” she said. Xola Makeleni (30) from Langa said he is now tempted to buy a bicycle. “I used to work with someone who would ride a bicycle and I think it is time for me to join that. I would laugh at him but right now it looks like a great idea,” he said. “Very soon R100 will buy only two litres of petrol, this increase also means other things such as food will increase in price. Both diesel and petrol will be up by over R2 from the current price. These hikes have become a pain to us as motorists,” said Makeleni. The Automobile Association (AA) said the fuel price increase will hit already financially pressed motorists. “In addition to the increases to the basic fuel prices, the R1.50 relief off the General Fuel Levy (GFL) given by the government for May and June, was halved for July which adds to the increases. This means the increase of R1.82 to 95ULP is, effectively, an increase of R2.57. This, and other increases announced today, will certainly negatively impact on all South Africans and will, undoubtedly, play a big role in the economy going forward,” said the AA in a statement.