THE Magaqa family isn’t happy that after five years of waiting for justice in the murder case of former African National Congress (ANC) Youth League treasurer Sindiso Magaqa, the court still allows delaying tactics. This after Pietermaritzburg High Court adjourned the trial on Monday, 18 July, to allow one accused to be evaluated by a psychiatrist. The case is set to resume on Tuesday, 19 July, when the psychiatrist’s results will be revealed. The family hoped the beginning of the trial would take them out of the dark cloud they’ve been under since Sindiso’s murder. He was sprayed with bullets while sitting in his car at Ibisi Village in Umzimkhulu, KZN, in 2017. He was rushed to hospital and died three months later. His two fellow Umzimkhulu councillors, Jabu Mzizi and Nontsikelelo Mafu, who were with him, were injured. In 2019, former cop Sibonelo Myeza and businessman Mbulelo Mpofana were arrested. The two accused were later joined by late former Harry Gwala mayor Mluleki Ndobe and Umzimkhulu municipal manager Zweliphansi Sikhosana, who were later released due to a lack of evidence, leaving behind Myeza and Mpofana to account. They were joined by two other accused, Mlungisi Ncalane and Sibusiso Ncengwa.  The four were charged with conspiracy to commit murder, murder, attempted murder, malicious injury to property and charges of unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. In court on Monday, Ncalane’s lawyer Shane Matthew appealed to the court to adjourn the case to allow his client a psychiatric evaluation, as he revealed he was not mentally fit to stand trial. Family spokesman Lwazi Magaqa said they weren’t very pleased with what transpired in court as they have been made to wait for long to see justice in this case. “Sindiso’s mother attended the case for the first time, hoping to get information as to why her child was killed but she was robbed of that chance because nothing happened in court today. We are not happy about the delays at all,” said Lwazi. Magaqa’s close friend Thabiso Zulu was also in court and was also not pleased with the snail’s pace the case was moving at. “This dragging of feet in this case is really delaying justice. But what I am looking more into is the naming of the masterminds who sent the accused to kill Magaqa, because those standing trial are just middle men. What we want to know is the masterminds who sent them to kill,” said Zulu.