THE residents of Lahlumlenze believe they live in the forgotten part of Soweto. They want the police minister to send the amaberethe because the cops at the Orlando Police Station have failed them. Residents said when the police are called, they don’t come. They believe the cops consider Lahlumlenze to be a no-go area. On Sunday morning, 10 July, the spotlight fell squarely on Lahlumlenze after 15 people were killed in a tavern shooting. Police Minister Bheki Cele and his deputy Cassel Mathale, as well as the MEC of Community Safety Faith Mazibuko and the Mayor of Joburg Mpho Phalatse, all visited the area. Yesterday, 11 July, during the community meeting, a resident accused the local police of demanding bribes to do their jobs. “They must stop, Mr Cele. If they can’t help us, please send the soldiers,” pleaded a resident. Another resident said crime in this area was so bad that the police regarded it as a no-go area. “Even with muggings, the criminals don’t use knives. They carry guns,” he said. “When we go to the police station, they are judging us because we are from Lahlumlenze,” said the resident. He said intruders get into homes and kill the occupants. “We are asking for the amaberethe unit because the local cops have failed.” Another resident raised concerns about the alleged tribalism at the station. Residents said the station was dominated by people from Limpopo. “The jobs at police stations seem to be earmarked for people from Limpopo but we, who live here, don’t make it into the police force.” Minister Bheki Cele promised they will increase policing in the area and even send the amaberethe. “We will deploy more police who are going to be on the ground and patrol,” he said. He said they will start patrolling immediately. He said when he is asked to deploy the amaberethe, he gets called to withdraw them. “I won’t withdraw them because when they are deployed, their presence is felt.” Cele said the national commissioner has given five vans to the Orlando cop shop to increase police visibility in the area.