South Africans can expect some
relief at the pumps in August based on current unaudited mid-month data from
the Central Energy Fund (CEF), according to the Automobile Association (AA). The current numbers are showing
95ULP petrol down by around 90c/l, 93ULP down by around R1.07/l and the
wholesale price of diesel decreasing by around 91c/l. Illuminating paraffin is
also set for a decrease of about 94c/l. “All of this is naturally good
news for consumers and motorists and will ease some pressure on embattled
budgets. We must, however, be cognisant of the fact that this is mid-month
data, and that price outlook may change over the next two weeks before the
August adjustment is made,” says the Association. According to the data, the drop in
international petroleum prices is driving the decreases but they are being
offset by a weaker Rand/US dollar exchange rate, which is eroding otherwise
sharply declining fuel prices. These decreases will be further
limited due to the return of 75c/l to the General Fuel Levy (GFL). The
government has indicated that it will not alter its position that the initial
R1.50 it cut from the GFL in April and May, and which was halved to 75c/s for
June and July, will end in August. This means the GFL returns to its normal
rate of R3.93/l in August. “Given this, and based on the
current data, the decreases to the prices for petrol and diesel are expected to
be around 15c/l and 32c/l. Although these would be more significant if the GFL
relief was still in play, a reduction is nonetheless welcome, and will ease
some pressure on consumers,” the AA notes. The Association further notes that
despite the forecast decreases, fuel prices in South Africa remain high and
that the previous sizable increases will still impact the economy in coming
months. “Decreases offer immediate relief
but increases filter into the economy over time, especially as those sectors
affected by them don’t immediately adjust their prices downward but instead wait
for more consistent fuel cuts that lower their input costs. We stand by our
call that a review of the fuel price structure, and an audit of the components
that comprise the fuel price, is essential and long overdue to offer
sustainable solutions that mitigate against rising fuel costs in the country,”
concludes the AA. 