WALES have
for the first time beaten the Springboks 13-12 in South Africa in the second
test match of the series at Toyota Stadium in Bloemfontein on Saturday. It means
the series is levelled 1-1, after the Boks won the first test in Pretoria last
weekend. The last
test match of the three will take place at DHL Stadium next Saturday, with a
winner in that game winning the series. Wales, in
winning this match, followed England from the Northern hemisphere, to win in
today’s match, with the latter beating Australia. Ireland
also defeated the All Blacks, and all these matches are also all 1-1 going to
last matches on Saturday. The game
in Bloem was watched by a vibrant crowd of 46000, but it lacked tries that it
warranted and it was never a classic compared to the first test last Saturday. This was
expected as Boks coach Jacques Nienaber made a raft of changes, giving 14
players a run after Boks scraped through to a hard fought victory last
Saturday. But the
Boks were competitive, ending the first half 3-3 apiece after both fly halves –
Handre Pollard and Dan Biggar were successful in kicking between the poles. In the
first test, Boks were down to 18-3, with Wales looking totally in control of
the test before losing it in the second stanza. All eyes
were on the flyhalf Pollard, who made his return in the Boks starting line-up,
taking over from the much-maligned Elton Jantjies, who had a shocker match in
Pretoria. Just like
the first test, Wales went ahead early, though not with a try, but via a
penalty from Dan Biggar in the first minute. Then he exchanged penalties with
Pollard, who was successful in four of six penalties. With
Biggar taken off, Gareth Anscombe took over the mantle, kicking a penalty to
make it 12-6 in the 67th minute. However,
Wales’ Josh Adams was given time and space and he dived over to score the only
try of the match and create history for the Dragons to win in SA home soil for
the first time. With the
last decisive test in Cape Town on Saturday, the venue where many Stormers
players won the URC a few weeks, Boks coach Nienaber is expected to ring
changes to ensure that the Boks win the series. The world champions have
never lost a series after winning the first test. 