POLICE Minister Bheki Cele will not back down and he stands by his word. This after he screamed at a civil society member who was addressing criminal activities during a meeting in Gugulethu, Cape Town, on Tuesday, 5 June. Cele lost his cool after Action Society member Ian Cameron pointed out how he was not addressing concerns of the community and how he, Cameron, was on the ground patrolling the area. A visibly angry Cele repeatedly shouted at Cameron to “shut up” and ordered him out of the meeting. Cameron had accused Cele of neglecting the community, saying criminals were roaming the streets and killing people. But Cele did not take kindly to this, and went on a rant about his struggle credentials. “I did not join the human rights battle yesterday, that is why I was sent to Robben Island. That’s why I lived in the cold water and ate bad food – because I was fighting for human rights. That’s why today we have human rights, so you cannot teach me about them,” he said. “Don’t tell me about the safety of poor people. I nearly died for it. I fought for it. I was arrested for it. I went to exile for it. Don’t provoke me. Don’t tell me about things you have studied and been told about. I have lived this life,” he said. Cele’s spokeswoman Lirandzu Themba said the minister would not apologise for what happened. “Cele’s response is that he stands by his utterances. Cameron was kicked out after he refused to give Cele an opportunity to finish his response to him and other stakeholders’ inputs. Simply put, he was disruptive to the meeting and public order police unit members ushered him out,” Themba told Daily Sun. Addressing journalists later, Cele said he was not going to allow the meeting to turn into a political matter. He protested that he tried to shrug it aside several times, but couldn’t on the day. After being dragged out of the hall by police officers, Cameron equally protested that he simply raised genuine concerns about criminal elements in the community and Cele turned it into a political issue. He pointed out that he was a member of civil society that was battling gender-based violence in the area. “Then he (Cele) comes and talks about political things. He talks about freedom fighting. And then he shouts at me and said ‘shut up’. I said ‘no, you shut up’. You are a public servant. A minister is an elected public servant and cannot treat the community like rubbish,” insisted Cameron. Cele said he wished not to engage further on the matter, but maintained he had a good working relationship with the community safety MEC in the province.