Maritzburg United coach, John Maduka has come out guns blazing in defence of his reputation, lashing out at criticism that he ran away from Royal AM because he is not qualified to coach in Africa. It was speculated without facts that Maduka knew he wouldn’t be able to sit on the bench for AM, as he did not have the compulsory Confederation of African Football (Caf) license, and was unable to coach in the Confederation Cup and Champions League. Maduka led AM to a third place finish in the DStv Premiership, which qualified the KwaZulu-Natal club for a place in the Confederation Cup. He lashed out at those critics alleging that he left Royal AM as he doesn’t have a Caf A License to coach in Caf Confederation Cup next season.  Maduka, to clear his name, sent proof to SunSport that he obtained his Caf A License in 2015. It was signed by former Caf president Issa Hayatou and former secretary-general Hicham El Amrani. Caf sent correspondence to all its member associations that coaches in charge of teams in the Champions League and Confederation Cup must be armed with a Caf A License or Uefa Pro License. “I just want to clear something that has been in the media that I don’t have a Caf A License, it is very disappointing,” Maduka told SunSport. “This is very deflating to me. I have a Caf A License and it was obtained in 2015.” There are also allegations that Maduka is owed his June salary by Royal AM, the month he resigned and was appointed as the Team of Choice coach. “I’m hearing news that the team is owing me money, and they told me I said so,” said angry Maduka. “I have never spoken to anyone about this. I’m always reserved when it comes to such (private) things.” Meanwhile, Maduka has roped in Simon Gopane as his goalkeeper coach for next season to work alongside assistant coach Ditheko Mototo. Since Maduka was appointed, he has signed Bongani Sam from Orlando Pirates, Bonginkosi Makume from Baroka FC, Given Mashikinya from AM and DR Congo international Karim Kimvuidi from DRC outfit DC Motema Pembe.