CONVICTED Nigerian nationals have been sentenced for scamming R12 million from two law firms by cloning their email addresses. Olatunji Samson Abdul and Adedayo Quandri were on Friday, 8 July, sentenced to eight years and seven years imprisonment respectively by the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court sitting in Palm Ridge. Both men pleaded guilty and were convicted on 24 counts of theft, related to cloning the email addresses of conveyancers, DM5 and Yaron Waks Attorneys. The law firms handled property sales and registrations on behalf of its clients, Amogelang Holdings and Lesley Warther respectively. The men used spyware and viruses to monitor emails between the law firms and their clients (property traders) that were about to do or receive transfers from the conveyancers after their properties were sold. READ: BEWARE OF FONG KONG FUNERAL COVER SCAM! They would then send their banking details to the conveyancers, as though these emails were from the property traders, resulting in R7,8 million and R4,2 million being diverted to their accounts. On 14 May 2019 DM 5 received an e-mail purporting to be from Amogelang, directing or instructing the company to transfer the proceeds of the sale of property worth R 7 836,347.70, money due to Amohelang that was paid into a bank account belonging to Siphosihle Sithole, who was charged together with both accused but his trial was separated from that of the Nigerians after he pleaded not guilty. Prosecutor Advocate Frans Mhlongo told the court that the victims of the accused scam were rendered financially hard-pressed as the scam was targeted at conveyancing law firms that handle large volumes of financial transactions. “Our courts must protect members of our Business community from this type of offense and failure to do so might lead to business entities disinvesting and leaving the Country and a large section of our Society destitute”, he said. National Prosecuting Authority spokeswoman Phindi Mjonondwane commended investigating officers Oscar Mopedi and Mhlongo for remaining committed to the course of justice.