A STEPFATHER has been handed a life sentence for the rape of his stepdaughter. Yesterday, 6 July, the Pretoria Magistrates Court sentenced the 36-year-old stepfather (Mr X) from Hercules in Pretoria West after Magistrate Johanna Mthimunye convicted him of rape on 13 April this year. The National Prosecution Authority’s regional spokeswoman Lumka Mahanjana said: “On Sunday, 5 January 2019, the minor and her mother had gone to church. During the service, a pastor prophesied that the child had been sexually assaulted by a 33-year-old man when she was nine years old. “After church on their way home, the child confessed to the mother that indeed the stepfather had been sexually assaulting her over a period of a year when the mother had gone to work at night and she was left in his care.” Mahanjana said the mother confronted Mr X about the allegations made by the child, but he denied it. The following morning, both the mother and Mr X took the child to a doctor at Laudium Hospital where the child was examined and it was discovered that indeed she had been sexually assaulted. After the child spoke to social workers, police were called and Mr X was arrested at the hospital. He has been in custody since the NPA successfully opposed bail. In court, Mr X pleaded not guilty to the charge against him. Mahanjana said: “Prosecutor Tumi Phongola told the court that rape is a scourge that is unfortunately prevalent in our society, is degrading and humiliating, especially on vulnerable children. “She further asked the court to take into consideration the seriousness of the offence and the interest of society when imposing a sentence, because Mr X took advantage of a nine-year-old girl and threatened her life if she reported the rape. “In delivering her sentence, Magistrate Mthimunye agreed with the state that Mr X took advantage of a child who regarded him as a father, and that he deserves no other sentence but that of life imprisonment.” The director of public prosecutions, Advocate Sibongile Mzinyathi, thanked the pastor and community leaders for their contribution in ensuring that the child got justice. “This is a very good example that reflects the role of all members of society to protect children from harm,” he said. He also congratulated the police for their investigation and the outstanding work of the prosecutor in fighting for justice for the child and her family.