CRIMINALS who point guns at police should not live to see another day. This was according to EFF leader Julius Malema who addressed scores of EFF members at the Dr Molemela Stadium in Free State on 30 July 2022. "If they take out guns against the police, the police must drop them with immediate effect, no criminal must point a gun at police and come out alive. "That is the only way we are going to restore law and order in this country, we cannot have criminals having more rights than law-abiding citizens of our country,” he said. The leader of red berets in his keynote address of the party’s 9th anniversary took an opportunity to address the issue of criminality in the country, following the horrific rape story in Krugersdorp. Malema said, “The issues of Gender Based Violence must be confronted by all of us. Whether the zama zamas who raped our sisters are from Lesotho or not, we don't care, they are criminals and they must be dealt with as such, their nationality is not important.” “The South African police must start acting on criminals. Where this rape happened, the police must go there with barricades and barricade the whole squatter camp, get into every house to look for the rapists.” Malema said there should be a militant programme in that informal settlement. He said that is because they were informed that the issue of rape in that area is a regular occurrence. He said, "It is only now that it got exposed, they are raping young girls, they are raping old gogos and all women during the day, and they don't even wait for darkness. "They open cases and nothing ever happened." READ: EFF: Stop abusing our people As expected, Malema took a jab at the minister of police Bheki Cele and the newly appointed national police commissioner General Fanie Masemola. “The criminals have taken over the streets, we don't have a minister of police and the commissioner. “The day we get the minister of the police and the commissioner, police must face these criminals who have taken over the streets, toe for toe. He added, "Thugs who raped those eight women, they must know they didn't just rape them, they killed them, because when you rape you kill something inside that person."