SIX lions that had escaped from the Hluhluwe-Imfolozi Park in Ulundi, northern KZN, and were bothering villagers, have been put down. This means the misery of villagers from Okukho and Nqulwane, who were fearing for their lives and that of their livestock, is now over. But on Saturday, 16 July, Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife decided to kill the lions. They then invited two villagers, Lucky Ngqulunga and Similo Khanyile, to show them the six carcasses of the pride. Lucky and Similo were flown in a helicopter over the area where the lions were “destroyed”. Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife spokesman Musa Mntambo said the lions had killed six cows, and the figure may rise as some villagers still had to take stock of their cows. He said most had been living in fear. “The villagers’ anger was mounting as it was feared that the lions had lost the fear of humans. Several villagers had alleged that they had met these lions. And instead of the lions running away, which is their normal behaviour in such encounters, they walked straight towards them – forcing them to retreat,” he said. ALSO READ: Deputy minster’s family dies in horror crash! He said that during the verification drive, only two carcasses were seen. The other four had been removed by villagers for their own use. “When Ezemvelo’s helicopter flew above the second carcass, the area had become a point of convergence for a large group of villagers who were of great assistance to the pilot.” He further said the decision to put down the pride was taken following villagers’ anger, that resulted in a group cutting the fence and staging a sit-in. “They threatened to not only sit inside until the MEC resolved their issues, but also to hunt and kill any lion they saw. The group demanded to meet with economic development, tourism and environmental affairs MEC Ravi Pillay. They met last week and several resolutions were taken, including that the lions should be killed,” he said. Villager Thulani Dube (59) said he was relieved that the lions were killed. “Now I must visit the department so that I can also claim for my cow that was killed by these lions last week.”