A POLICE sergeant was arrested for allegedly taking a R200 bribe from a suspected drug dealer.  The officer was arrested along with three other men during an operation on Friday night, 15 July 2022. The operation was carried out by the Durban police who were joined by KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi. Police spokeswoman Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala said in a statement, "Whilst the team was busy with their operations on Noble Road in Umbilo, they noticed something suspicious going on in between occupants in a police vehicle from Durban Central and a civilian male outside a block of flats on Noble Road in Umbilo. "The team continued with their observation on the said activity. An unknown male was seen leaning through the window into the front passenger seat of the police vehicle, handing something over to the passenger." She said the team rushed toward the said police vehicle but upon seeing the team approach, the officer in the passenger seat threw something out through the window. "The police officer, a 39-year-old Sergeant, was confronted and placed under arrest for corruption and defeating the ends of justice after an amount of R200-00, which is what he is suspected to have thrown, was retrieved from the drain." Gwala said the man who handed the money to the police was subsequently caught with drugs. "The civilian was ordered to take the operational team to his apartment where they found a second man. The flat was searched and police found pieces of Cocaine and R7000-00 cash suspected to be the proceeds of crime. "Two men, aged 52, were placed under arrest for possession of drugs. All the three suspects are due to appear before the Durban Magistrates Court on Monday, 18 July 2022." READ: ‘TJOTJO’ cops 'MOERED man, demanded R300K General Nhlahla Mkhwanazi said, "We often see videos or pictures or receive information of police officers engaging in such criminal activities and we are unfortunately seldom able to prove that such police officers are engaged in criminal activities." "I accompanied those hard-working members last night as a show of support and to boost the morale of our hard-working members throughout the province as well as the country and these arrests last night, especially which of the police officer, is a giant leap for those hard-working police officers to rid our ranks of corrupt elements," said Mkhwanazi.