Budget 2022/23 The 2022/23 Budget was approved at the end of May 2022 and is geared towards maintaining financial stability while advancing service delivery and driving critical infrastructure investment. Read more: City of Tshwane 2022/23 City of Tshwane’s vision To become a prosperous capital city through fairness, freedom and opportunity The vision of the City capitalises on Tshwane’s position as South Africa’s capital of opportunity and is embedded in the values of fairness, freedom and opportunity. The 2022/23 Budget represents the collective strategic priorities of the City of Tshwane multiparty coalition government. The ten strategic focus areas to develop Tshwane and fast-track service delivery are as follows: 1. Prioritise the electrical grid and water infrastructure 2. Provide stringent financial management and oversight 3. Be a business-friendly City that promotes employment and economic growth 4. Enhance City safety, security and emergency services 5. Maintain a clean and protected natural environment 6. Maintain and expand road infrastructure and public transportation 7. Be a caring City that supports the vulnerable and provides social relief 8. Modernise and digitise City processes 9. Provide a professional public service that drives accountability and transparency 10. Create a healthy and vibrant city The City’s multiparty coalition government consists of the Democratic Alliance, ActionSA, Freedom Front Plus, African Christian Democratic Party, Inkatha Freedom Party and the Congress of the People. The City approved a total budget of R44,9 billion for the 2022/23 financial year. The operating budget is R42,1 billion and the capital budget is R2,8 billion. Tariff increases Water A network availability charge for all properties irrespective of usage will be implemented. The network availability charge is equal to the first 9 kl charge for residential properties, which will cover the bulk cost and part of the operating costs. The consumptive charges will increase by 9% on average. Registered indigents and residents with a property value of R150 000 or less are exempted from the network availability charge. 12 kl of water per 30-day period will again be granted free of charge to registered indigent households. It should further be noted that free water is also supplied to informal areas by water tankers and standpipes. The 9% water tariff increase is summarised as follows: Sanitation Sanitation charges are calculated according to the percentage of water discharged as indicated in the table below: Comparison between current sanitation charges and increases Registered indigents and residents with a property value of R150 000 or less are exempted from the network availability charge. Electricity The tariff increase for domestic, commercial and industrial customers is 7,47% in line with the National Energy Regulator of South Africa’s guideline for municipalities. The tariff structure regarding households provides for inclining block tariffs. Registered indigents are granted 100 kWh free of charge. The proposed sliding scale tariffs for the 2022/23 financial year that apply to households are as follows: Refuse removal A tariff increase of 6% for 2022/23 is proposed to render a stable refuse removal service to all areas. Refuse removal charges are based on the volume of refuse removed (container size) per week. Property rates The first R15 000 of the market value of all residential properties is legislatively impermissible for the charging of property rates, and a further valuation reduction of R135 000 is granted by the City for charging property rates. All residential properties are thus not charged any property rates on the first R150 000 of the value and registered indigents pay no property rates. Furthermore, the social package is extended to all properties valued at R150 000 and below. The residential tariff is the baseline tariff, which determines the ratios of some of the other tariffs. The rate ratio of residential to agricultural and public benefit organisations is legislatively determined to be 1:0,25.Based on a 6% increase from 1 July 2022, calculations can be done as follows: Operating programmes The following are some of the programmes accommodated within the operational budget: Key capital projects Some of the main projects and key focus areas of the budget and Integrated Development Plan to be addressed in 2022/23 include the following:          