OWETHU Mtshali is desperate for new eyes (cornea transplant). The matric pupil (18) from Dundee in KZN has a condition called Keratoconus. “I am not sure when Keratoconus started but I believe I was born with it and I need new corneas for my eyes. I noticed I had a problem when I was in grade five. I couldn’t see the words on the board. I couldn’t recognise people’s faces, no matter how close they were. My eye sight became poor so much that I’d only see blurry images,” he said. As he grew older the condition has worsened on his left eye. “My left eye cannot see at all but my right eye is also affected. This is giving me challenges, especially when I am studying, reading or learning in the classroom. My teachers are supportive but they can only do so much,” said Olwethu. He said his doctors have told him that his condition was getting worse. “My condition is getting worse because my eyes are always itching. The more I rub them is the more I damage my corneas. The doctors have told me that I urgently need new corneas because my condition is getting worse,” he said. His mother, Bahle Mtshali, said: “When he was three years old I noticed that he rubbed his eye a lot. I took him to eye specialists but most of them said it was an allergy and they said he’d outgrow it. But that never happened. Instead, he got worse,” said Bahle. When he was in grade seven Bahle took him to an eye institute in Tshwane. “That’s when we were told he needed new corneas in order to see again. In 2020, his left eye was severely damaged and it was too late to be placed on the donor list. I had to buy the cornea from USA. “I paid about R60 000 just to import it. After the transplant he could see properly and he was no longer using glasses,” said Bahle. But two years later, Owethu’s body rejected the new cornea. “He can no longer see properly and his condition has worsened. I’d like him to get corneas for both eyes, but it’s expensive. We need about R200 000 for two corneas. This will cover the cost of importing corneas from USA. He is still not on the donor list because there’s already a shortage of organ donors in South Africa,” she said. “I have requested the doctors to remove my own eyes and put them in my son’s, but I was told the law doesn’t allow that. I am therefore pleading with South Africans to either donate corneas or with money so my so can see again,” she continued. Cindie Goldie, a co-ordinator at Busamed Gateway private hospital, said: “Organ donation is still a taboo in South Africa, especially in black and religious communities. This is because of beliefs and cultural background, among other things. But the reality is, one person can save up to 10 people just by donating his or her organs upon death.”