THE Southern African Alcohol Policy Alliance in South Africa (SAAPA SA) has called for government to revisit alcohol regulations. In a virtual media briefing on Thursday, 7 July, the organisation’s executive director, Maurice Smithers, called for President Cyril Ramaphosa to act decisively and effectively by taking steps to initiate an urgent response to the current alcohol regulation crisis. Smithers was responding to the comments made by Ramaphosa on alcohol during the mass funeral Enyobeni Tavern victims in East London on Wednesday, 6 July. He said the challenges around alcohol policy remain, despite their numerous letters to the president and requests for engagement with civil society on reducing alcohol harm. He said the Enyobeni Tavern tragedy has reopened a debate on the alcohol regulations. He said Ramaphosa’s recent addresses have characterised the problem as one of underage drinking. “SAAPA SA and others argue that underage drinking is a symptom of a much greater problem and that unless this is recognised, appropriate solutions will not be found. “In his address at the funeral on Wednesday, the president went off-script and suggested there should be a national debate on whether the age of drinking should be raised from 18 to 21. As a consequence, everyone is now discussing whether increasing the age of drinking will address the challenge of underage drinking,” said Smithers. He said they are in full support of raising the age of drinking from 18 to 21 and there are very cogent, evidence-based health and social benefits to doing so, but raising the age of drinking will not, on its own, achieve anything. He said there is no reason to suppose that a 13 or 15-year-old child who is currently drinking alcohol, despite a drinking age limit of 18, will stop drinking if the limit is raised to 21. He said Ramaphosa needs to first establish a new inter-ministerial structure, a National Co-ordinating Committee for Alcohol Control/Harm Reduction located in the presidency to ensure the government focuses on the specific risks posed by booze. He also called on the minister of trade, industry and competition to revive the Liquor Amendment Bill process by sending it to Parliament which can then embark on a nationwide public participation process to debate the bill and its recommendations. SAAPA SA board chairwoman, Bongiwe Ndondo, has called for society to also take part in dealing with the underage drinking problem. She said for an adult to sell alcohol to a 13-year-old or a tavern to make flyers of a pens down bash inviting teenagers is not just an Enyobeni Tavern problem, but a societal one. “This is an issue that is happening all over and we need to ask ourselves as society what are we hoping to achieve with all this,” she said.