AS the country woke up to another petrol hike on Wednesday, 6 July, taxi drivers in some parts of Mpumalanga blocked all roads coming out of townships and going to town. Trucks and taxis blocked the N4 road as well as those going to various townships in what drivers said was a strong message to the government that they’ve had enough. Taxi driver Hendry Mambane told Daily Sun that they decided to barricade roads because it seemed like the government didn’t consider them when taking decisions. He said when petrol went up, food prices also became ridiculously high. “The taxi industry suffers a lot because we need to pay for these vehicles and support our families with the little money we make. We also lose customers in the process because they can’t afford prices,” he said. He said they didn’t understand how the government worked. “We don’t get subsidised or benefits from government. We’re indirectly attacked because these hikes also affect the poorest, who are our customers. Three years ago things were affordable but now, everything has changed. What went wrong?” he said. Commuter Patrick Yusuf (29), who survives on odd jobs, said he had to go back home because everything was on a standstill. He said he supported the strike as it also affected him. “I don’t earn much and if petrol goes up, we also suffer. I have twins that I need to take care of; I have to go to work and buy food. Where is the money going to come from? The government must make a plan about these increases,” he said. Another commuter Dumisani Gulane said the government needed to reconsider its decision because a lot of people would be affected. “We understand drivers’ frustrations. We are all affected and wish that the government can do something about this,” he said. Businesses had to be closed while people going to work were turned away. In KaNyamazane, a truck ferrying food was also attacked and looted by community members. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said eight people had been arrested in various areas in Mbombela and charged with public violence and pointing of firearms. “We are concerned about this strike because it has distracted a lot of activities and other operations. We request the public to remain calm. Our members are also on the ground to monitor the situation and ensure that roads are opened,” said Mohlala.