RESIDENTS of Pienaar, outside Mbombela in Mpumalanga, are gatvol with men who continue to violate the rights of women and children. Yesterday, 5 July, they protested outside the KaNyamazane Magistrates Court where a 64-year-old madala appeared for the alleged rape of his 13-year-old neighbour in May. It’s alleged the suspect entered the victim’s home after he noticed that her mother was not around and raped her. When the mother returned home, she found a cellphone and sandals, allegedly belonging to the suspect, in the room. The girl allegedly confessed that the suspect raped her and that it was not the first time. The madala was arrested last month after he was cornered by community members at a sangoma’s place. Angry community members told Daily Sun they are against what the suspect allegedly did. Dumisani Masilela said they don’t want the court to grant him bail. “We are here to support the family and to also oppose bail,” he said. “We don’t want people like him in our community. They are monsters. He called on izangoma to work with the police to combat crime. Another resident said what the suspect allegedly did was selfish as he is in a polygamous relationship. “He could have picked any of his wives instead of violating this child. “We are very angry and would like to see him spend the rest of his life behind bars Men like him don’t have space in our communities,” he said. According to a resident, the suspect spent weeks in the sangoma’s house cleansing himself as he wanted to get away with the crime. The secretary-general of the South African Council of Churches in Mpumalanga, Reverend Luke Dlamini, said: We are calling on every man to be mindfully of every child like the child they have in their own family, so they must take responsibility for their growth and not victimise them like the rapist has done.“We are appealing to the justice department not to allow bail for such people.”, we don’t need such people in our society Deputy national co-ordinator of the Traditional Healers’ Organisation, Ncobizitha Mnguni, said they don’t encourage their members to assist perpetrators. “We have signed a pledge with our members to say we don’t encourage our members to help perpetrators who committed crimes, especially that are related to gender-based violence.We have appealed to our members that if such people come and ask to be helped in getting away with crimes related to gender-based violence, they must be reported to the police,” said Mnguni.  and on our side we will be looking at the provision that, our members who report such people get the necessary protection that they need, “he said The matter was postponed to 18 July.