THE shooting of 15 people in a tavern in Orlando East, Soweto, over the weekend has left many people asking: “Z’khiphani with tavern attacks?” One of the 15 people who was shot and killed was Phethuxolo Chiliza (26), the father of Sebenzile Ngwenyama’s unborn baby. So the heavily pregnant Sebenzile kicked off her blankets and rushed to the tavern to frantically search for her brother. However, when she got there, it turned out that Philani was still alive, but Phethu-xolo had been shot and killed. Philani is in hospital fighting for his life.  Speaking to Daily Sun, Sebenzile said: “A local boy told us our brother had died after he was shot. When we got there, he was lying on the floor and very much alive. It was the father of my baby who had died.” Painting a picture of what she saw there, Sebenzile said: “Most of the people were sitting on the floor, injured and bleeding. There were dead bodies all over the floor next to them. “My brother was also lying on the floor. We pulled him out and hired a car to take him to the hospital. He was shot in the stomach, at the back and on both legs. He was still speaking but mostly crying.” A distraught Sololo Mjoli (59) lost two sons in the shooting. Luyanda (18) died at the scene, while Sthembiso (34) died moments later at the hospital. Sololo said nothing could have prepared him to see the lifeless body of his son. He said Luyanda did not drink alcohol but enjoyed going to the tavern with his brother to play pool. Sololo from Pimville, Soweto, told Daily Sun he received a call from Sthembiso’s girlfriend after the incident. “I rushed out with my wife. I saw my son’s body lying in the middle of the road a few metres away from the tavern. It appears he was trying to flee after being shot. I have never heard my wife weep this much. All I could do was cry,” said Sololo. The father of four said soon after learning that his other son was rushed to a hospital, he got a call from the hospital that he had died.  “It pains me that I have to bury two of my children at the same time. Luyanda was optimistic about getting a job. All he wanted was to play pool, but he walked into his death,” said Sololo. A heartbroken Linda Dlamini (36) said he had warned his brother, Sibongisile Jokaza (35) and their friend Sibonelo Ngubane (25) many times against going to taverns. He said he was home when he heard multiple gunshots and soon people came knocking to tell them that Sibonelo was injured.  He said: “I rushed to the tavern to look for Sibonelo. When I walked in, there was blood everywhere and I had to jump bodies in search of Sibonelo. “After spotting his lifeless body, I saw a very familiar shirt. I took a closer look and it was my brother. He had also been shot dead,” said Linda. “I have been begging them to stay away from taverns at night. Our youngest brother was stabbed to death nearly 10 years ago. The area is not as safe as it used to be when I first moved here. Crime has gone out of control,” he said. 