WORKERS from the Early Childhood Development (ECD) centres marched to the district office of the Department of Education in Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga, on Wednesday, 20 July. The protest of the 5 000 gatvol workers was led by ECD regional chairlady, Masana Maluka, and other members of the ECD community who braved the hot sun to march from the old taxi rank to the district office. “We are here to raise our concerns. We deserve to be treated better and fairly,” said Maluka. She said they want all partial care and programme certificates that expired to be reissued, registered ECD centres to be funded, and the process of registering outstanding centres to be speeded up. “We demand that all subsidies must be paid in full within 24 hours to all centres that get subsidies,” said Maluka. READ: Young ones say NO to child abuse! They said pre-schools won’t open until these matters are resolved. They want the department to engage both regional and Ehlanzeni District ECD centres for any changes and developments. Annah Mathaila of South African Congress of Early Childhood Development said after they moved from the Department of Social Development to the Department of Education, they have never been paid since 13 June. “Our workers depend on payment. We don’t have food for the children at the centres.“We are starving single parents and the R800 and R1 200 stipend is too little. We can’t support our families,” she said. We received an email from the department saying they had verified everything and our payment was being made through its district office on 13 July. But they also sent us a list to say we don’t comply with the South African Revenue Service (Sars).” She said they will assist 300 ECD centres registered particularly in Bushbuckridge area to get funded. Further Education and Training’s chief education specialist Glory Ndlovu, who received the memorandum, said: “We will respond accordingly. But, you should update your documents, including your tax clearance certificates.”