THE two brothers, Nkosinathi Yika (28) and Themba Yika (38) received a hefty sentence for the murder of gogo Sue Howarth (65) and the attempted murder of her husband who was 68 years old at the time, a horrific incident which occurred on 18 February 2017 in Dullstroom near Belfast. Mpumalanga police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala broke down the sentence handed to the two brothers: “For Housebreaking, both were sentenced to 15 years imprisonment each and for discharging a firearm in public they were sentenced to 5 years imprisonment. On the count of murder, both were sentenced to 20 years imprisonment meanwhile for attempted murder, the two were sentenced to 12 years imprisonment. The two were also sentenced to 5 years for theft. For kidnapping of each victim, the two accused were sentenced to 5 years imprisonment per victim.”Meanwhile for Themba Yika an additional sentence concerning the firearm was imposed upon him. He was slapped with 5 years for possession of the unlicensed firearm and 3 years for possession of unlicensed ammunition. The court is said to have heard that on that fateful day a group of three men armed with firearms stormed into a certain house in Dullstroom where they held two pensioners, husband and wife hostage thereby robbing them of their belonging including their mobile phones. Mohlala said, “During the hostage drama, the female victim was shot by the suspects and sustained some injuries whilst they tied the husband as well as severely assaulted him with a torch. The suspects are said to have then demanded pin codes for the victims' bank cards.“Both victims are said to have been dragged by their assailants into a bakkie, Nissan Hardbody belonging to the victims. The husband was then shot by the suspect as well before they were abandoned with their injuries next to the road. “The victims were later assisted by a concerned citizen who found them and rushed them to hospital where the wife unfortunately succumbed. The police in Dullstroom were informed by the paramedics about the incident whereby a murder and robbery case was opened. The team of investigators began their investigation where they gathered some information and worked tirelessly to find the perpetrators.” The Provincial Commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela has commended the exceptional work done by the detective team, the prosecution team, and the judiciary. "We welcome the sentence handed down by the court to the accused who unashamedly took advantage of the pensioners, robbing them of their belongings as well as murdering one and severely injuring the other. We hope that that sentence will deter others from committing crime" said the General.