RADIO presenter Current Mama is ready to launch her controversial book, titled The Masturbating Church. The author, whose real name is Mampoi Mankoane (53), told Daily Sun the book was about churches of today. Current Mama said it was her second book. It was about her experience in churches around Mzansi, including losing money to pastors and seeing them using young girls. She released her first book, Back In The Ring, in 2017. It addressed how she came out of an abusive relationship. She said it gave her the voice and power to silence her abuser. She said masturbation did not bring good results, productivity or progress, especially in the house of the Lord. Current Mama from Atteridgeville, Tshwane, said she was planning to start a church that would set people free from the engagements they found themselves in with pastors. ALSO READ: Mnakwethu viewers not happy with Mseleku! She wrote the book after she observed the growth of churches and how members took advantage of women. She said churches did not have power anymore, and they had shamed the name of God. “The book aims to expose fake pastors. Instead of leading and teaching people about God, they are the ones leading them into temptation and sin. “This book is going to provoke pastors who are failing God’s people. As for those who are willing to do what is right in the eyes of the Lord, they will repent and turn away from their wicked ways,” she said. Current Mama further said instead of churches being an answer to the world’s problems, pastors were running after their pockets. “Pastors no longer protect what has been placed in their care, which is church members. They are busy scouting which woman they could sleep with,” she said. She said God gave her the title of the book. ALSO READ: SABC presenter needs your help! “I tried reasoning with God, but He told me to write about The Masturbating Church. She said God also gave her the chapter in the book of Genesis. “Chapter 38 of Genesis from verses 6 to 10 talks of a man who slept with his brother’s wife as per culture. “Instead of him putting the seed in her womb, he chose to spill it on the ground. God became angry and killed him,” she said. Current Mama said when she was not writing books, she was presenting her show My World Of Truth, on online station Truway radio in Waterfall, Joburg.