THE writing could be on the wall for premier and ANC chairman Sihle Zikalala as the provincial elective conference knuckles down to elections after a hostile reception when he delivered the political report on Friday, 22 July. In his speech, Zikalala said all the right things, including former president Jacob Zuma’s bad treatment in an effort to appease delegates. But this was still not enough to stir them, with one going rogue and voicing out his disgust. Zikalala is apparently resented in the province and accused of betraying Zuma after he ditched the RET forces and joined President Cyril Ramapho sa’s faction. He is now facing defeat in what has turned out to be a four-horse race with Sandile Zungu, Nomusa Dube-Ncube and Siboniso Duma. Duma entered the race after being nominated by the eThekwini region at its regional council on the eve of the conference, and is said to enjoy the support of six out of 11 regions compared to Zikalala, with the support of four. But many are putting their money on Dube-Ncube, who if successful, would become the first female chairperson not only in the province but for the governing party. She has been dubbed the game-changer in this province. READ: ANC held at ransom! Zikalala, at a press conference on the sidelines, reflected on the historic moment of having four candidates vying for the top position, saying this confirmed the democratic process after years of divisions. But the hostility he received was palpable and when delegates returned to the plenary for a close session, video footage of them singing anti-Zikalala songs started circulating. This somewhat set the tone of what awaited Ramaphosa if he were to come to the conference on Sunday, as confirmed by treasurer-general Paul Mashatile. Zikalala blamed the leadership under Ramaphosa for not implementing some of the 54th conference resolutions. He said the conference adopted many key resolutions to fast-track economic growth, but none were implemented. Key among them were the expropriation of land without compensation, a dedicated focus on industrialisation, banning exportation of raw material in specific commodities for expansion of manufacturing as well as establishment of the state bank and transformation of the Reserve Bank to be under the control of the state. “Notwithstanding the adoption of the sector master plans aimed at growing industrial sectors such as the sugarcane industry, poultry and clothing and textile. Little progress has been achieved,” he added. Zikalala said a number of factors led to the party losing support in recent elections. “It is clear from the results that the ANC does not own voters. It is also clear that it may have lost its broad-based mass character, appeal as well as ability to mobilise society behind it and its programme of delivering a better life for all. Reasons for loss of support include the depressed national mood due to Covid-19, the distressed economy, unemployment, increase in poverty, arrest of Jacob Zuma, July unrest, distrust of the ANC-led government, enormous service delivery failures including water and electricity, corruption allegations, leadership conflicts as well as financial woes,” he said. He added that while the movement still enjoyed the majority party in most municipalities in KZN and South Africa, the confidence in it as a leader had drastically declined. “This performance reflects the declining level of trust and credibility in the ANC, its activists and leaders. This decline is largely attributed to internal squabbles, money politics, corruption and poor performances,” he said. The conference entered its second day on Saturday, 23 July, after advancing past the contentious credentials hurdle late in the night. Provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli was set to deliver the organisational report while Dube-Ncube would deliver the financial one, both of which would be closed sessions. Thereafter, nominations for the top five positions would be announced.