POET and activist Ntsiki Mazwai has sent social media into a frenzy with her raunchy photos. Since Saturday, she has been posting half-naked photos of herself. In the first few photos, she can be seen wearing a yellow two-piece bikini and wrote: “Just waiting for 6am so I can post my droopy boobs and get the attention that upsets insecure women who think they are hotter than me.” By Sunday morning, she posted photos of herself showing her nipples. “How I show up when they thought they had killed my spirit... SANIBONANI. My body is 100% natural.” In a follow-up tweet, she wrote: “My boobs are not my strong point. They used to be before I lost all the weight... mina I like my legs and thighs, nobody is perfect. My boobs are definitely not my strong point and it’s OK.” ALSO READ: FORMER Generations: The Legacy actress WEDS! Her half-naked photos have inspired other women to also share similar photos. The photos have since divided Twitter. Philile Mbanjwa said “Aike ibele akulona lokuvezwa,” loosely translated as “Oh no, a breast is not supposed to be displayed in public”. But Ntsiki clapped back and said: “You learnt from baas John?” Themba Rose applauded her for her courage and wrote: “You are the highest level of free. You’re comfortable anyhow with you and your well-being. I salute you woman, if that Michael Jackson You Rock My World song was a person, that sure is you in all levels.” Pamela Mahlati said: “There’s going to be a VJJ Friday very soon by the looks of things. Why don’t we just walk out naked nje as women because hayi this is too much now.” Klaas commented: “Mina like I say, nothing’s more beautiful than a woman who is comfortable in her own skin and all natural.” However, a cultural expert, Nomagugu Ngobese have defended Ntsiki and said: “From the olden days women used to show their breasts and this was never offensive. This is because they never had brassiere or bodice. Those who were married would use an animal skin to cover their breasts. But over time, through revolution we were introduced to underwear and that is when things changed.” Therefore Ntsiki can reveal here breasts as much as she wants, this is cultural and should be encouraged. Those who are offended must read African history,” said Nomagugu. Ntsiki has since defended herself. She said: "We are Africans. If  people were less ignorant of our identity and culture South Africa would be a better place." 