I started working for Daily Sun as a freelance sport writer in 2002, with my focus being the National First Division (now called the GladAfrica Championship). I was employed full-time the following year to write about Premier Soccer League (PSL) soccer. I remember going for that job interview at Daily Sun in Media Park and being interviewed by Julian Kearns and publisher Deon du Plessis. Deon and Julian asked me about my knowledge of the game at grassroots and professional level. It was easy to respond as I have passion for the game, having also played football at semi-professional level. I remember Deon asking me: “So, what do you think you are worth?” I knew from then that it was the start of an exciting journey ahead. The computers we used then didn’t have a spell check, so we had to provide our own dictionaries to check spelling.  I learnt the hard way, considering that Julian had me write the words I spelt wrong and the correct one on an A4 size page and asked me “which one is correct here? I think I am wasting my time with you.” Julian was strict and I would sweat whenever he edited my story. Whenever he realised I was resting on my laurels, he would show me homeless people through our office window and say: “You see those two guys down there? You will soon join them.” I later saw that he was only doing this so that I could become a better journalist. I realised that I had gained his trust when he started sending me to meetings to present the sport diary and posters. Deon headed the meeting and I remember presenting the poster about the fans at Cape Town Stadium who forced the main gate open in a bid to watch the Absa Premiership match between Kaizer Chiefs and Ajax Cape Town without tickets. I explained that the PSL general manager Ace Ngcobo told me that police used stun guns to disperse the crowd. But Deon looked baffled and asked me: “What did the police use?” I responded “stun guns”, then he asked, “do you know what a stun gun is?” I said a choking gun and the irritated Deon said: . I noticed that he was getting angry, leaning more backwards as if he will fall off his chair while closing his eyes and he said,“Get out of here and get your facts right. It’s either the police used rubber bullets or live ammunition”. From that day, I knew that being the sport editor is not a bed full of roses. The experience I’ve gained since then was massive and increased my love for the paper. Twenty years later, I am still here doing what I love the most: writing stories for the man in the blue overall while also helping young scribes better their writing skills.