THE Special Investigating Unit (SIU) needs more forensic accountants to bolster their war on corruption. On Monday, 30 May, the crime-busting agency signed a new partnership with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants’ (SAICA) Thuthuka Education Upliftment Fund (TEUF), and the North West University to ensure the unit is well capacitated in the future. The three institutions established a bursary fund to train forensic accountants to be deployed within the SIU, to bolster the war on corruption. The bursary will be funded by the SIU to the tune of R10 million and it will run for a period of four years, with an option to renew. Speaking during the signing of the partnership, SIU head Advocate Andy Mothibi said the university will train and produce a new generation of forensic accountants to fight the scourge of fraud and corruption in South Africa. He said criminals and their criminality have become more complex and the use of forensic accountants in investigations is becoming a top requirement. “The corrupt and the criminals out there use sophisticated tools and ways to commit crime and they use sophisticated methods to hide the money and the assets that they have corruptly acquired,” said Mothibi. He said six years ago, the unit had a forensic accounting team that was short-staffed and under resourced. “We need to up the game in terms of ensuring that we meet them pound for pound. We need to ensure that we have the skills that will analyse all those financial statements, all those balance sheets, all those income statements to ensure that we come to grips on the kind of offences and corruption that have been committed,” he said. On recommendations made in the report of the Zondo Commission, Mothibi said the SIU is already investigating some of the findings and allegations at several state-owned entities including Transnet, South African Airways, Eskom and Denel. “We do have proclamations already in most of those areas. What we are doing is that we already have a process in place to ensure that we understand the outcomes of the Zondo Commission and ensure that we run all of those outcomes and recommendations and place them in our processes so that they produce the results that we all are looking for. Be it civil litigation where we have got to recover monies that have been lost by government and by the state,” he said.