POLICE investigations are 
underway after three school kids died after allegedly being fed energy
drink. The kids were allegedly given the energy drink by their
father in their lunch boxes. Three of the kids started getting sick after drinking it
during break at the school and were rushed to hospital. They died immediately after. The incident happened on Thursday morning, 26 May. The fourth child is still fighting for his life and the
fifth one did not drink it. Gauteng’s Education MEC, Mr. Panyaza Lesufi, has expressed
his devastation at the news of the tragic deaths of three boy pupils. Steve Mabona, spokesman for the Gauteng Education said boys
aged 6, 13, and 16 and were all pupils at Ratanda Primary and Khanya Lesedi
Secondary Schools in Ratanda. "Preliminary reports allege that the father of the
three deceased gave all his five children energy drinks in the morning while
they were preparing for school. Four of the said pupils consumed the energy
drink after arriving at school in the morning," he said. "Sadly, two of the said pupils died shortly at the
school after complaining of stomach pains while one was rushed to the nearest
hospital but died on the way." The fourth sibling is in a critical condition at the
hospital while the fifth, fortunately, did not consume the energy drink. I am saddened to learn about a father, who this morning allegedly poisoned his 4 children. 2 children died in our school premises while the 3rd died on his way to hospital. The 4th child is in a critical condition at the local hospital. My sincerest condolences @EducationGP1  “Firstly, I wish to convey my sincerest condolences to the
family, particularly the mother, of the deceased pupils. I further extend my
condolences to friends, fellow learners and teachers of the pupils, especially
those who had witnessed these tragic incidents,” MEC Lesufi said. "At this stage it is not known what led to the deaths
and law enforcement agencies are investigating circumstances surrounding the
deaths." The Gauteng Department of Education has dispatched its
Psycho-Social Support Unit to the affected schools to offer counselling to the
school community at large. The services have also been offered to the bereaved family. MEC Lesufi will visit both schools and the family on Friday,
27 May.