THE fight between Bhongolethu “Dr Khehlelezi” Mzozo and Khumbulani “Mabalengwe” Ntombela has intensified. The fight follows Mabalengwe’s recent arrest by the Hawks earlier in May. He was later charged for fraud, theft and money laundering and he is currently out on R10 000 bail. He is expected to be back in court on 30 June. Mabalengwe has since opened up about his fraud case. He was speaking on Wednesday, 26 May with Dr 3 Seconds on Facebook. “My job as an inyanga was to assist the guy who worked at the bank. He was one of the senior officials but he wanted to be rich and powerful. He came with a list of the things he wanted to achieve. I agreed to help him. Ngamuthwalisa (I gave him powerful muthi). Within a short space of time my client got rich, powerful and even got married. He even bought properties,” said Mabalengwe. ALSO READ:Minnie Dlamini’s open letter to Lungile Radu “He and his wife then decided to thank me for the work I did for them. One morning they came to my house and took me to the garage and they had bought a car for me. I cannot confirm or deny that the money was stolen from the bank,” said Mabalengwe. He then accused Khehlelezi of setting him up with the police. “I believe my arrest was unlawful and I know Khehlelezi is behind my arrest. He knew about my big client and he was jealous of my success and cars. He even told me that I’d be arrested because of these cars,” he said. But Khehlelezi denied being behind the arrest. “I know how he got the cars and I was aware of the alleged fraud. I even advised Mabalengwe to get rid of the money and sell the cars so he cannot be linked to the fraud. Unfortunately he did not listen to me. He trusted his muthi and said he’ll never get arrested. I’m therefore surprised that he is accusing me for his arrest whereas I was advising him to get rid of the money and cars,” said Khehlelezi. ALSO READ: Good news for Senzo’s family Dr 3 Seconds said: “Mabalengwe has asked me to intervene. He believes that Khahlelezi is behind his arrest. I have agreed and I am meeting them on Tuesday next week.” The spokesperson for Hawks in Gauteng, Captain Ndivhuo Mulamu told Daily Sun: “The accused’s apprehension emanated from the Absa’s alleged missing millions reportedly swindled by the late Xolela Masebeni, who was, at the time, Absa’s specialist engineer at a Sandton branch between September and December last year.” “The Hawks’ Serious Commercial Crime Investigation in Joburg together with the Durban and Pinetown tactical response team successfully traced and arrested the Melmoth-based traditional healer, Khumbulani Ntombela (43) also known as Mabalengwe,” said Mulamu.