WHEN little Bontle Mashiyane went missing three weeks ago, her family prayed to find her alive. Sadly, the six-year-old’s body was found in bushes and had been mutilated, apparently for muthi. Three people, including Bontle’s neighbours, have since been arrested for her murder. Bontle was reported missing on 30 April after she was last seen playing outside her home. Daily Sun published her stories on 9 and 16 May. Her distraught aunt, Sharon Mashiyane from Mganduzweni, outside White River in Mpumalanga, said they didn’t think someone they trusted with their children would do something like this. were disappointed as the neighbours pretended like they cared and even helped to look for Bontle. “Discovering Bontle’s body like that was not a good thing. We were hoping we would one day see her walk in. Everything doesn’t feel real. We are saddened. “This is a big loss for everyone in the family,” she told Daily Sun. She said they were comforted by the fact that the suspects have been arrested. “Their arrest has saved the lives of many children in the area. who were also being targeted. We have found closure because we have found the remains even though they were not found in a good state. We are pleased with the progress of the investigation and hope that justice will be servedThis is not just for our child, but we know all the kids will be saved from these evil people if they are kept in jail,” she said. The first suspect was apprehended in Kabokweni and he confessed to the murder. The other two suspects, who are Bontle’s neighbours, pointed out where her body was found, which is not far from her home. The suspects are alleged to be working with izangoma in the area for muthi purposes. It’s alleged that this is not the first murder the suspects committed in the same street. In 2019, two Qibi sisters were killed and their bodies were found dumped near a stream. A pastor and his nephew were burnt to death by the community, accusing them of murdering the siblings. Resident said they are shocked by the incident. Simon Mashele said:  they are scared as the people who intentionally hurt them are close to them. “We fear for our kids’ safety. “If people close to you are able to do this, then we are not safe.” “The fact that the people who did this are people we live with is very disturbing. They want to use our innocent children for their dirty muthi rituals. He said he wishes they stay behind bars for a very long time and also reveal the izangoma they are working with. Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane and Mpumalanga Police Commissioner, Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Manamela visited the Mashiyane family yesterday, 22 May. Mtshweni-Tsipane said: when they arrested the first suspect, he allegedly confessed to the killing of Bontle and four more children in the same area. “The mastermind behind these killings is a woman, a person who is expected to care for and nourish these children, and she happened to be her neighbour Bontle used to play with her 10-year-old child.” She said there’s a possibility more charges might be added. The suspects are expected to appear in the KaBokweni Magistrates Court today, 23 May, for rape, murder and kidnapping. A special police team has been deployed to the Masoyi and KaBokweni areas to deal with crime.