WHO CAN refuse the tired, old gogos water to drink when they come knocking at the door? The grateful old ladies are invited into the house, given a glass of water and then they slowly proceed down the road. BUT THE SWEET OLD GOGOS ARE THERE FOR EVIL PURPOSES. THEY ARE SPIES FOR TSOTSIS! The gogos are actually in the house to scout. Later in the evening, the houses which the gogos visited are robbed and residents believe the old ladies are behind it all. These gogos are believed to be between the ages of 60 and 70 and are not known in the area. Several houses in Etwatwa, Ekurhuleni, have been broken into after these strangers were allowed into the houses.  Felicia Ntsele, a victim, said they were sleeping when they heard the door being kicked open. She said the thugs had guns and knives pointed at them. “It was scary. They took the plasma, our cellphones and shoes,” she said. “We’re not sure if these people were in a car. They rolled things in a duvet and a sheet, and then left,” she said. Then she remembered the visit of the two gogos earlier that day. She had never seen them in the area before. “They had politely asked for some water because they were thirsty,” said Felicia. “In our culture, old people are respected. We could not refuse when they said they were tired and asked for water. Little did we know that we were inviting snakes in our house,” she said. Another victim was attacked by the same thugs a few houses away from Felicia’s place. “We didn’t open a case because we know the cops always fail people. We’ll just let God deal with them,” said the victim. Other gogos felt these old tsotsis were a disgrace. “La re poula (you disgrace us). They are supposed to be looking after their grandkids and not going around doing these things,” said Evelyn Dubazana (68). “We don’t want to be associated with people like them. Gogo Alice Mtshakala (74) said: “They probably became involved in crime at an early age. Maybe they were pockets. You can’t just decide to become a thug that’s impossible in your old age.” Gogo Zenzile James (82) said it shows that there is no more ubuntu. Colonel Molatelo Maoto of Etwatwa Police Station urged the victims to open cases.