MPUMALANGA community safety, security and liaison MEC Vusi Shongwe has strongly condemned an incident where a sangoma is alleged to have been involved in the kidnapping and killing of the six-year-old Bontle Mashiyane of Mganduzweni outside White River. Bontle went missing on 30 April and her mutilated body was found dumped near her home on Saturday, 21 May. Shongwe has called for residents to help expose evil traditional healers. “A sangoma or traditional healer is alleged to have been involved in the kidnapping and killing of a young girl aged six in Mganduzweni. The girl was reported missing and was later found dead near her home. There is a video in circulation where a man alleges that they were sent by a traditional healer who wanted female body parts to be used for traditional purposes,” he said. Shongwe has described this as purely evil and inhuman and should not be allowed in communities. He said traditional healers should be at the forefront in the fight against gender-based violence. “We have no place for traditional healers who rely on the death of other people in order to heal. In fact, those should not be regarded as traditional healers, but criminals. True traditional healers don’t hurt others to heal another. “We cannot accept any form of criminality in the name of traditional healing. True traditional healers must expose those who are using this gift to destroy and kill others,” he said. He called on community members to work hand in hand with police in order to stop this evil work by criminals who hide behind the gift of traditional healing. Shongwe said what happened is heartbreaking and is a disgrace to the province. Meanwhile, he said the incident where a traditional healer assisted the police to arrest suspects linked to the killing of Hillary Gardee should be commended. He said when healers are approached by criminals to cleanse them, they should be reported to the police as the traditional healer on the Gardee case did. “Traditional healers who help criminals are equally criminals,” he said.