“MY father has always been a monster and he abused my mother until his last breath.” These were the words of Gola Sibiya (32) from Ntandakuvela Village in Ulundi, KZN, who survived his dad’s alleged mass shooting. Gola said he saw his father, Mjabuliseni (64), shoot his mother, Sizakele (58), three brothers, Themba (39), Mthabi (34) and Minenhle (28) and a neighbour, Musawenkosi Sikhakhane (44), before turning the gun on himself. Gola said he bought a bed and groceries for his mother on Saturday, 28 May, but his father was at church at the time. But his mother’s joy did not last long as his father told them he didn’t want the bed in his house. “My brothers tried to talk to him. I left because my relationship with him has always been sour and I thought leaving would calm him down. “But my mother called me crying and I was forced to go back home,” he said. Gola said when he got home, his father was carrying a stick chasing everyone. He and Themba tried to stop him. “Themba said it would be better if he killed him because he was tired of being abused by him. “He drew his gun and shot him. He died instantly. He then fired shots towards me and I ran to the bushes. “He went into the house and shot my mother and two brothers. “A neighbour rushed in to see what was happening and he also shot him before turning the gun on himself,” said Gola. Gola said his mother, Minenhle, and the neighbour were rushed to hospital. “My mother is recovering well, but my brother and neighbour are still in the Intensive Care Unit.” he said. Gola said: added that he decided to leave home a few years ago because his father was violent. "I don’t know what was wrong with my father. He was always angry and very brutal. “He used to even beat our grandfather. We don’t know where all this anger came from. “It saddens me that he cut other people’s lives short when he decided to cut his short. I wish God makes him pay for being a monster.” Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said two people were declared dead at the scene, as well as the suspect. “Charges of murder, attempted murder and an inquest are being investigated by cops,” said Gwala.