YOU cannot talk about the 2010 Fifa World Cup without throwing in the conversation the spectacular opening goal of the tournament which was scored by Siphiwe “Shabba” Tshabalala. And the 37-year-old from Soweto acknowledges it that all people are still reminiscing about it as if it happened yesterday, and this makes him proud that he contributed to Africa’s first and only World Cup.  With the trophy being on a worldwide tour, courtesy of Coca Cola, Shabba says the 19-carat gold piece of work, worth over R2,5 million, should give hope to the African youngsters that anything is possible. “The theme is: believing is magic,” said Shabba who was part of the entourage that welcomed the trophy at the Lanseria International Airport on Saturday and will leave this afternoon. “We remain hopeful that one day we will achieve a lot in football. With the trophy being here it will give youngsters a chance to dream that it’s possible to achieve it.” This is how the 18 carat gold Fifa World Cup landed in South Africa at Lanseria International Airport on Saturday, flanked by 2002 winner @julianobelletti This is the cloest we can come to it after the 2010 spectacle. Either than that, we will take videos from a distance. pic.twitter.com/McKToZGxYF  Former Brazilian soccer star and 2002 Fifa World Cup winner, Juliano Belletti, is the man safely looking after the trophy across the world, and Minister Nathi Mthethwa and Safa president Danny Jordaan were among dignitaries on the day. “I find it befitting that as a person I deserved to be part of the 2010 World Cup, I did well. You cannot talk about the 2010 World Cup and not talk about the goal that I scored, your conversation would be incomplete," he added. “It was an important goal, first in Africa, brought unity and we all witnessed strangers hugging and celebrating together.” He added that South Africans must not lose hope that one day Bafana Bafana will win the World Cup, though it might not be in our lifetime, “but it will happen”. “One African country winning it would be victory for the continent,” he said. “We need to believe and not lose hope as a country, challenges are there, we must be tested. Failure is part of progress. We will persist and persevere, I’m not losing hope, it will happen.” It was on 11 June when South Africa played against Mexico at FNB Stadium and Shabba connected with a pass from Teko Modise in the 54th minute, and he hit it hard past Mexican goalkeeper Óscar Perez. Modise took over the ball from Reneilwe Letsholonyane who was also marvellous on the night. It's here, in Mzansi pic.twitter.com/acHl9B1hlN  Yeye, as Letsholonyane is known in football circles, said the spectacle brought a sense of unity and togetherness among South Africans. “It felt like we are taking a direction of working in unity, and it was brought by the World Cup. From there onwards, we went back to our ways of doing things. It was a sign that we can achieve so more when we work together,” he said. The trophy tour, which first kicked off in Dubai with former World Cup winners – Iker Casillas and Kaka – came to South Africa from Nairobi, Kenya and will head straight to Dodoma City, Tanzania on Monday afternoon.