“PUBLIC protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane should investigate whether mining company Glencore did not bribe judges and politicians in South Africa as it has been charged and pleaded guilty in the USA for these crimes.” This is the call from United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa, who wrote to Mkhwebane to institute an investigation into the company as it once operated locally. In a letter dated 31 May, Holomisa asked Mkhwebane to consider his suggestion. President Cyril Ramaphosa was once its chairman when it had dealings with Eskom while he was head of government business and chairing the power utility’s war room. The company pleaded guilty in the USA, and agreed to pay fines amounting to over R18 billion for corrupt practices in dealing with foreign governments. Despite evidence presented to the state capture inquiry by former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe and executive Matshela Koko implicating Ramaphosa, commission chairman Chief Justice Raymond Zondo did not make any findings against him. He also did not make any comments about his role on Glencore dealings with Eskom. But after the announcement of the company’s corrupt conduct, Ramaphosa’s link has again been under scrutiny. Koko has since come out to say that the USA charges against Glencore had vindicated him, and that he would be consulting his lawyers about launching fresh investigations against Ramaphosa’s link to the company. Announcing the charges, the USA said the company had been bribing government officials and judges to get its way in seven countries, without mentioning if this had occurred in South Africa. But, Holomisa is adamant that Mkhwebane should probe the company, given the testimony by Molefe at the commission. “The public protector, as the originator of the state capture report, has great insight into the matter and could take up the issue with the US government. This with the assistance of the Zondo Commission lead investigators, Special Investigating Unit and possibly National Prosecuting Authority. “There is, furthermore, a deeper principle that should be considered. Should the US government be able to help us in uncovering corruption of the same nature on home soil, should it not be South Africans who benefit from the fines/penalties as they are the ones who are victims of this corruption?” asked Holomisa.