A CASE of fraud has been opened against Thobela FM and Skeem Saam actor Sebasa Mogale. The case was opened by Sello Bonoko at Polokwane Police Station on Saturday, 21 May, after he was allegedly scammed of R235 000. “I want my money back. I paid R235 000 to Sebasa’s bitcoin company and he promised me R50 000 a month return. This was in September 2020, but I never received any money. I didn’t know he was running a scam. He assured me his business was legit,” said Sello. On Saturday, 21 May, Sello, a former salesman, told Daily Sun that Sebasa advertised his bitcoin business on Thobela FM. “It sounded convincing andI trusted it mainly because it was on public radio,” said Sello. “I went to his office where I found more than 20 people attending an investment workshop. ALSO READ: Skeem Saam actor suspended over fraud claims! He said police initially refused to open a case. “I only managed to open a criminal case on Saturday (21 May). I hope the police can thoroughly investigate and arrest the culprit,” he said. SABC’s Gugu Ntuli said: “Thobela FM has taken a decision to unschedule Sebasa, Ntshirogele afternoon drive presenter, following a Carte Blanche exposé. “He is being afforded an opportunity to resolve the issues raised in the recent broadcast, pertaining to his business dealings involving crypto currency. “In the meantime, Mankoko Baby will host Ntshirogele with Skhumbuzo Mbatha. The station takes the welfare of itsvulnerable listeners seriously and will leave no stone unturned in investigating the matter.” Since Saturday, more than five victims have come forward also claiming to be scammed by Sebasa. Daily Sun has seen proof of payments. Some victims said the police are refusing to open cases. On Saturday,  Limpopo police spokesman, Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo encouraged victims to open cases, but once the SABC case was opened, he no longer took our calls. He also failed to respond to text messages and reminders. Ipid spokeswoman Grace Langa said: “I encourage victims to report this to the Provincial police commissioner or even to the provincial Ipid office in Limpopo.”