MARAUDING gangs in areas such as the Cape Flats, KZN and Gqeberha, the uncontrolled influx of illegal immigrants as well as the general lawlessness across the country, are all a ticking time bomb that should not be allowed to explode. This was the admission and warning by Minister in the Presidency Mondli Gungubele when tabling the budget vote on state security in the National Assembly on Tuesday, 24 May. Gungubele said it was not an exaggeration that the country was gripped by an atmosphere of fear and insecurity and if nothing was done, the country would reach the deepest levels of devastation from which it would be difficult to recover. “It is for this reason that the centrality and posture of our civilian intelligence service must be enhanced to consolidate the vital rapport between the people and the state,” he said. “The marauding gangs in areas like the Cape Flats and parts of KZN and Gqeberha, who terrorise communities and carry out assassinations of individuals, the uncontrolled influx of illegal immigrants which often leads to violent clashes with locals because of competition for resources, the wanton destruction of critical economic infrastructure, and the general lawlessness across the length and breadth of our country, all constitute the ticking time bomb that we must never allow to discharge,” he said. Gungubele also pointed out the weaknesses of state institutions, high unemployment especially for the youth, inherited levels of poverty and deep inequality, as well as rampant corruption at various levels of government as some of the contributors to the ticking time bomb. He warned that the situation was not good for the sustainability of the country. He called for every effort to be made to implement the economic reconstruction and recovery programme together with other government interventions to “turn our economy around and uplift the lives of our people”. “If we do not attend to these immediate challenges, we run the risk of being exposed once again to the unfortunate incidents of July and no one wants to experience such upheavals ever again in our country. We, therefore, need a solid, state-led programme with our social partners and the citizens of our country as a whole to find solutions and rid our country of the monster of poverty and inequality,” he said. He promised that the country would align with global trends in building intelligence capacity and in the medium-term they would be focusing on building and strengthening capability and capacity for a relevant Signals Intelligence as well as reinforcing the legislation. The technological developments, he said, had made the internet an increasingly important part of existence and in an effort to strengthen cybersecurity, the National Communications would continue to build and strengthen its capability to proactively combat emerging cyber threats and potential cyber-attacks. The increased incidents of cybercrime require a comprehensive approach to cyber security to protect the country’s critical network infrastructure, he said. Gungubele admitted that the department was plagued by corruption as revealed by former state security minister Sydney Mufamadi’s panel, which uncovered how funds were used to campaign for ANC elections. The report prompted President Cyril Ramaphosa to move the department within the Presidency. Gungubele said one of the biggest issues that had stifled the performance of the agency had been the matter of corruption and enduring culture of misconduct. “A number of interventions have been instituted especially with regard to the investigation of corruption since the publication of the Mufamadi report. Though a great deal of work has been undertaken, there have been no tangible results in terms of holding people to account for the misdemeanours. “However, we are glad to announce that in the past two years, the work to uncover acts of corruption and misconduct has intensified and a number of individuals have been arrested with others already being convicted by the courts of the commercial crimes. In the previous financial year, we finalised 11 disciplinary cases and this current year we have already finalised three of these,” he said.