LAWYERS representing convicted killer ex-cop Rosemary Ndlovu and her co-accused, former cop Nomsa Mudau, are fearing for their lives. They told Kempton Park Magistrate Prince Manyathi that a complainant in one of the two cases has made a personal inquiry about one of the lawyers. Sergeant Keshi Mabunda is accused of allegedly asking for personal information about defence lawyer advocate Baloyi-Makamu. Advocate Maloatane told the court Mabunda called a prosecutor based in the Tembisa court asking about where Baloyi-Makamu stays, who is she married to and where she hangs out. He said that concerned them because one of their colleagues was shot and killed in Venda in similar circumstances. “We wanted to raise our concern. Our office will escalate the matter to the station commander,” said Maloatane. Baloyi-Makamu represents Rosemary in the first matter where she’s charged with conspiracy to murder two police officers who were investigating her murder spree. She also represents the ex-Tembisa cop in the second matter, where she’s accused of attempting to murder Nomsa’s husband Justice Mudau in 2018. Maloatane is representing Nomsa in the same matter. Manyathi said he would expect both the state and defence to address him in the next appearance because the allegation was a serious matter. “If that is the situation, that’s very much unethical and we cannot allow such a particular situation, taking into account as the defence is saying that one of their colleagues in Venda was killed for the same situation for no apparent reason. That is a very serious allegation,” said the magistrate. He said it was not enough for the state to just say the matter must be escalated. He said the state must respond as to whether that did happen and if indeed it took place, why was it done. Mabunda investigated Rosemary for the murder spree of her six relatives for insurance payouts. It is alleged that Rosemary wanted him killed for arresting her. She’s currently serving six life terms at Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Services for the murders. Wearing a multi-coloured blouse and a dark blue skirt and in leg irons, Rosemary seemed relaxed. She swung her body and nonchalantly looked on as the lawyers addressed the court. The matter was postponed to 7 July for consultation.