THE LGBTQI+ community of the Vaal is living in fear after one of their own was found brutally murdered. Ntokozo Motloung’s decomposing body was found on Saturday, 21 May, in the bushes just outside the kasi of Tshepong. The 26-year-old was last seen by her family on Saturday, 14 May. A representative of the LGBTQI+ community, Sidwell Lengatsa, called on the community to give them support during these tough times. Sidwell told Daily Sun: “This thing (the killings) is becoming a pandemic. We are living in fear. This is not affecting the family only, we are all affected. We have seen a few of these killings directed at those identified as belonging to the LGBTQI+ community in the Vaal. Emfuleni is slowly becoming a home of hate crimes. We were horrified when we heard about the brutal way in which Ntokozo was killed. “We call on the members of the community to stand with us to end these killings. We call on them to support us. We are also humans.” Ntokozo was found by a search party who had lost faith in the police and was positively identified by her brother, William Motloung. Her mum Josephine Motloung blamed the cops for not doing enough to arrest the suspect, who according to mourners is between 45 and 50 years old. “I was with the suspect right at the De Deur Police Station but they failed to arrest him. He disappeared right in front of their eyes. So far, no one has been arrested and worse, we are not getting any update from the police. “If it was not for the concerned community who went to look for my child, we would still be waiting for the police. We are consoled by the throngs of community members who are coming to give us support. We thank the community of Tshepong,” said an angry, sobbing Josephine. Josephine said the suspect, who was allegedly the last person to be seen with her daughter at a party, told her that he was only interested in finding out whether Ntokozo was a male or female. Josephine said: “Why was he concerned with whether my child was a man or woman? Why was it any of his business? I wonder what a man of his age was doing with my child. I am not okay. This man wanted something from my child.” During the search for Ntokozo, the community assaulted somebody who seemed to know what happened to her. They said that person, when cornered, told them where they could find Ntokozo. But the family said they did not understand why the cops were not questioning him. De Deur police confirmed that “a gruesomely murdered body” was found by the community hidden in the bushes. Major General Zodwa Molefe of the Sedibeng District said the family identified the body “which was not in a good condition”. She said: “Her throat was cut, her hands were broken and rats had already eaten some of her body parts. Police are still searching for the suspect.” A memorial service will be held just outside her home on Thursday, 26 May at 2pm. The funeral service will take place at her home on Saturday, 28 May from 8am.