  POTHOLES are motorists’ nightmare. After the recent heavy downpours, potholes are almost
everywhere and some take way too long be attended to. There may be light at the end of the tunnel for motorists in
Gauteng, after the Department of Roads and Transport launched a new
province-wide app (application) as part of Smart Mobility Weekends Programme in
Diepsloot on Saturday, 28 May 2022. The App will allow road users to report poor road conditions
and other road maintenance issues that require attention. Speaking at the launch, Gauteng MEC for Public Transport and
Road Infrastructure Jacob Mamabolo said that the launch of the app is part of
the Department's commitment of leveraging new technologies to assist with the
monitoring of potholes and other road defects that need urgent attention. “The people of Gauteng are encouraged to download the app
and report road maintenance issues that need attention,” the MEC said. Once reported, a pothole/road defect appears on the
Departmental dashboard where it will be allocated to the maintenance team. Upon allocation, the app will provide a status update of the
pothole ranging from reported, assigned to complete. The app has a capability allowing it to check and verify
whether a reported pothole is on a municipal, provincial or a national (SANRAL)
road. Potholes reported are then referred to responsible road
agencies or municipalities for their attention. Those belonging to the Department will be dealt with by the
departmental road maintenance teams. The launch of the app also serves to build a relationship
with motorists/road users to be the eyes and ears of the Department in keeping
road infrastructure conditions conducive for a safe and enhanced pleasant
driving experience. “PotholeFixGP” is an easy to use app downloadable from the
Google Play Store and will soon be available on Huawei and Apple App stores.  To download the App, kindly click on the below link:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=za.co.thinkninjas.csir_pothole&gl=ZA 