 THE elders were called to investigate the loud noise coming from a powerful sound system in the neighbourhood. Resident Xoli Mtekwana (68) joined them, only to find that Incredible Happenings Ministries’ Pastor Paseka “Mboro” Motsoeneng was having a prayer session. The next thing, says the madala, hot klaps were raining down on him from all direction! “I was pulled by one of the church followers from the back and when I looked behind, a punch landed on my face. Then the rest of the people who were there followed,” he said. But Mboro said he went to Vosloosrus, Ekurhuleni, on Thursday, 26 May to pray against witchcraft and drug issues in the area. He said it was him who was attacked first – by the madala! “He poked me with his finger on my forehead and said I should get out the car. He slapped for the first time, but I blocked it with my hands. When I moved, it hit one of the congregants and he fell to the ground. People started to protect me,” he said. But madala Xoli told Daily Sun: “We were called as elders to talk to Mboro. After the meeting, it was decided he must not have a church or prayer session without getting permission from the residents. He must have the sessions where he lives because he is making a noise at night.” Madala said when he approached Mboro to speak to him, he was suddenly attacked by a crowd of congregants with hot klaps, fists and kicks coming from all directions. “I want the law to take its course,” he said. Madala Xoli said there were many people there, who came in over 10 minibus taxis and private cars. Resident Beatrice Mashika (74) said when the police came, Mboro allegedly told them: “This is a small thing. I am a man with a high profile and there is nothing they will do to me. “I said we don’t mind a prayer session. We just have a problem with the noise,” she said. Mboro said he would be opening a case against madala Xoli for attacking him. He said one of his congregants also opened a case against residents who allegedly damaged his car. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mavela Masondo said a case of malicious damage to property was opened at Vosloorus Police Station, but no arrests have been made yet. “Police investigations are underway,” he said. 