FOR 19 glorious years, Hlengani Mabasa and his wife lived happily together. But then she started suspecting that he was cheating on her and that was never part of the deal. AND IT ALL ENDED IN FLAMES WHEN SHE ALLEGEDLY SET HIM ON FIRE! The 42-year-old Hlengani from Mamelodi, Tshwane, who has just been discharged from hospital, said he still gets nightmares about what happened on Monday, 21 March. “My wife found a conversation between me and another woman on my phone. She got angry,” he said. “I tried to tell her that it was just an innocent conversation,” Hlengani said. He said he spent hours trying to talk to her and eventually, she seemed to understand. ALSO READ | ‘Dad asked for forgiveness!’ Hlengani said in the afternoon, his wife came into the bedroom and poured petrol all over him. She said he must tell the truth or she would burn him alive. “I thought my wife was joking but she wasn’t. Before I could say anything, she lit a match stick and threw it at me,” he said. “I was screaming and in so much pain. I managed to get outside and got water. But I was already badly burnt.” He said his neighbours managed to put out the fire and he was rushed to hospital. By the time he got to hospital he was unconscious. ALSO READ | Bus crash claims ten lives! “I was unconscious for a week and when I woke up, I couldn’t recognise myself. “I never thought the woman I loved, the mother of my three children, would try to burn me alive over false accusations.” He said they never had serious fights. “I’m not sure what demon possessed her that day,” he said. Hlengani said ever since he has been in hospital, he hasn’t seen or heard from her. He said all he saw of her were posts on Facebook. “I want the police to find her and lock her away for good. She needs to pay for what she has done,” he said. Hlengani’s brother, Robert Mabasa (44), said the wife called him, telling him about their fight. He said he told her that they’d have a meeting to discuss the matter. “But I was shocked when she called me a couple of hours later to tell me she had set my brother on fire,” he said. “I went straight to the hospital. When I saw him, he was badly burnt and in pain.” Robert said he was shocked about what the woman did to his brother. “I used to like her and she made my brother happy. But what she did has ruined our lives and we will never recover from this,” he said. Daily Sun ’s attempts to get a comment from the police were unsuccessful at the time of going to print. Police
Spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Mavela Masondo said a case of attempted
murder was opened at the Mamelodi Police Station. "Cops are still searching
for the suspect that is still at large," he said. 