THE Employment Equity Amendment Bill that will punish
employers who fail to comply with racial quotas as set by the government is
anti-job creation and should be sent back to the National Assembly for
reconsideration. That's the warning to President Cyril Ramaphosa by
opposition DA leader John Steenhuisen as the bill is now on his table waiting
for his signature to become law. The bill passed the National Assembly last
year and recently the National Council of Provinces and the opposition leader
argues this bill was just not the right medicine to address unemployment in the
country. Steenhuisen in a letter to Ramaphosa strongly argues that
the bill is signed into law will not bring about transformation in the
workplace nor will it level the playing field or do anything for the 12 million
South Africans who are currently unemployed. The opposition leader doesn't present any scientific
evidence on how he has come to this conclusion but rather piggybacks on
arguments already expressed by those sympathetic to employers. Some labour analysts have warned that the bill which will
empower Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi the power to set the targets for racial
quotas on certain sectors of the economy and impose heavy fines if those
targets were not met would scare investors away. Steenhuisen said he was well aware that Ramaphosa would be
put under pressure by some within the ANC into signing but cautioned the
president that the bill will have devasting effects on future investment. "Just as Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment has
done nothing but further impoverish this broad base while enriching a thin
sliver of well-connected individuals, the Employment Equity Amendment Bill will
do the opposite of what it says on the box. "But while connected cadres have gotten richer and
richer thanks to these interventions, ordinary South Africans have never had it
worse. Broad unemployment now stands at more than 46% and we’re in the longest
downward economic cycle since the Second World War. Last year alone more than a
million jobs were lost," said Steenhuisen. Life would be extremely hard in the coming months for those
without any savings or steady income and the lingering effects of the
coronavirus and the rising food prices would be deadly. Steenhuisen said these are the people he should consider
before he puts pen to paper on the bill. "Not the bubble of South Africans who are resilient
against economic shocks, but the 30 million men, women and children who already live below the
upper-bound poverty line and who face hunger and even starvation with the
stroke of your pen. "If you are serious about fixing our broken country,
you have to start judging your government’s policies and interventions by their
actual outcome, and not by the noble-sounding but a meaningless name given to
them," warned Steenhuisen. Ironically, his warning comes on a day Ramaphosa in his
weekly newspaper has expressed concern about how the governing ANC has
regressed in advancing black empowerment since it came into power in 1994. Ramaphosa pointed out that despite the black empowerment
policies adopted by the governing ANC, the majority of black people were still
economically marginalized. "While there has been significant progress over the
last two decades, there are some areas where there has been regression. We have
gone backward when it comes to increasing black management control, upscaling
skills development, entrenching enterprises development and broadening
procurement to give opportunities to black women and the youth," he wrote.