POLICE Minister, General Bheki Cele has called on the management
of the South African Police Service to crack the whip on police stations across
the country, that don’t deliver victim centred services to victims and
survivors of gender based violence. The call comes after the Cele
and National Commissioner of the South African Police Service, General Fannie
Masemola on Thursday 26 May 2022, visited the Eastern Cape Province and
received a full briefing on the status of police stations in the province. Hundreds of people marched to the Mthatha police station in the
province, demanding improved services from the station, following the brutal
murder of local resident Namhla Mtwa (35). Mtwa was shot and killed inside
her car by an unknown suspect in the driveway of her Sidwadwa home in Mthatha.
She sustained gunshot wounds to her upper body and was declared dead at the
scene. This brutal killing of Mtwa has raised concerns on the country’s battle
against high cases of gender based violence, following reports that Mtwa
suffered multiple cases of abuse at the hands of her partner. The mass picket to the Mthatha
station also called on the police to make an arrest in the murder case. Minister Cele on Thursday, 26
May 2022, visited the Mtwa family along with the police top management of the
SAPS, to update them on the investigations of the murder case. He has assured the bereaved
family that an arrest will be made soon. “I am happy with the report I
have received from the team of investigators and I do believe they have a solid
case and justice will soon be served for this young lady whose life was cut
short in the most gruesome way.” Cele also revealed that Namhla
Mtwa was in an abusive relationship that went unreported. “Unfortunately Namhla was
failed by all of us, she suffered abuse and it seems some in her family were
aware of it but it went unreported, those who worked with her saw the signs of
abuse and yet they said nothing and some of the abuse and assaults took place
in full view of some in her community, but they did not report this to
authorities. It is troubling that not a single case was opened with the police,
either by Namhla or by anyone on her behalf.” Minister Cele added that gender
based violence can only be eradicated if everyone in society, from law
enforcers to the community play their part. “Gender based violence and
femicide is a second pandemic that must be fought from all angles and anyone
who wears the blue uniform and chooses not to protect and serve victims and
survivors of GBV should be shown the door. This sort of negligence won’t be
accepted nor tolerated and I’m calling on the SAPS management to ensure police
walk the talk on this one or face repercussions.” The Police Ministry remains
encouraged that the SAPS continues to prioritise GBV crimes, but acknowledges
that more must and more will be done to improve services at police stations. To
date, R1,3 billion has been allocated to resourcing of the Family Violence,
Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) units that strictly investigate
crimes committed against women, children and the most vulnerable groups in our
communities. There are currently GBV Desks
at all police stations across the country, these desks are manned by police
members trained in GBV related courses. Over 80 thousand officers have
undergone such training and are currently manning the desks. Community members are urged to
report substandard services experienced at police stations.