MAVUSANA VHOO believes the two tsotsis who came to his house were sent to kill him. The comedian had just come back from a gig where he made people laugh. BUT IT WAS NO JOKE WHEN THE FUNNY MAN STARED DEATH IN THE FACE! “As they were stabbing me, they were saying that they had been looking for me,” he said. The 39-year-old, whose real name is Vusi Mkhandabila, told Daily Sun he had just arrived at his house in Mabopane, Tshwane, from a gig at about 8am on Saturday morning when two men stormed in. “My partner was coming from outside when the two thugs came in behind her,” he said. He said they came straight for him and started assaulting and stabbing him. ALSO READ: Somizi's daughter on having a gay dad! “I was so scared. I thought I was going to die. They said they were looking for me. I don’t know why.” He said they tied him up with an iron cable. He said they demanded his bank cards and pin codes, and took his cellphone.  He said a few minutes later an unknown woman came in and pretended as if she was pleading with the thugs to leave him alone. “I think she was working with them because she left at the same time as the tsotsis did,” he said. “I was bleeding a lot. I went outside and luckily I saw an ambulance passing by. “The guys took me to the ATM to stop my cards before taking me to the hospital,” he said. “I am glad I’m alive but now I’m scared to be in my home. I believe these thugs were sent to get me. At this point, I don’t know what to think.” He said he’s opened a case with the police. ALSO READ: Presenter does not regret dumping Ukhozi FM! Not long ago, a shack that Mavusana uses to shoot funny videos from was torched and this latest attack has left him traumatised. Daily Sun published a story titled “Laugh out loud with Mavusana” where he shared his story and how he was growing in the comedy industry. Daily Sun enquired with Gauteng police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Mavela Masondo said a case of house robbery was opened at Akasia Police Station. Police are searching for the suspects. 