With mid-year exams fast approaching for matrics across the country, the clock is ticking for you to buckle down and start envisioning the next phase of your life and how you want to shape the world with your field of study. If you have a keen interest in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), the Sasol Foundation is looking to empower you to create a sustainable future for all with a full bursary for the 2023 academic year. For the last five years Sasol has been voted the Employer of Choice in the Chemicals and Energy sector by the South African Graduate Employers Association and with this all expenses paid bursary the company is looking to continue to build the future engineers and visionaries of the energy sector.  Undergraduate Studies (B.Eng. / B.Sc.) 1 Chemical Engineering 2. Civil Engineering 3. Electronic Engineering 4. Electrical Engineering 5. Industrial Engineering 6. Mechanical Engineering 7. Metallurgy 8. Mining Engineering 9. Chemistry 10. Geology (Hons. is a requirement for Sasol) 11. Data Science (Computer Science / Mathematics / Operations Research / Statistics) Bursaries are also available for postgraduate students and students already enrolled in STEM fields at public universities. Green energy A particular focus for 2023 will be for students pursuing their studies in the Green Hydrogen space, which aims to develop sustainable ways to accelerate the transition away from a reliance on fossil fuels and onto a cleaner energy source. In line with its vision for clean energy, Sasol is leading feasibility studies on green hydrogen, which is made by machines called electrolyzers powered by the sun and wind in the Northern Cape. Minimum requirements: Grade 12 (Current Grade 12 students will apply with Grade 11 results) Bursaries can be accessed by those in matric or those who have completed matric but have not started with their first year of the studies. B.Eng, and B.Sc. • Level 6: 70 -79% for Mathematics and • Level 6: 70 -79% for Physical Science and • Level 5: 60 - 69% for English First Additional language or • Level 5: 60 - 69% for English home language or • Level 4: 50 - 59% for English Second Additional language B.Eng. Tech Engineering_(Mine Surveying). • Level 5: 60 - 69% for Mathematics and • Level 5: 60 - 69% for Physical Science and • Level 5: 60 - 69% for English First Additional language or • Level 5: 60 - 69% for English home language or • Level 4: 50 - 59% for English Second Additional language  General application criteria for students currently studying at university: 1. Current 1st-year students will apply with Grade 12 results. 2. Current 2nd-year students applying for the third year will apply with 1st year results. 3. Current 3rd-year students applying for 4th year / Hons will apply with 2nd-year results. 4. Hons. Students applying for Masters will apply with 3rd-year results. 5. Master students applying for PhD, will apply with Hons. Results. 6. Undergraduate students and Hons students must get 50% and above to meet the minimum criteria. Empowering the girl child Sasol will also be allocating University of Technology bursaries for mining surveying to female learners in Gert Sibande Municipality in Mpumalanga and the Metsimaholo Municipality in the Free State to empower communities in areas where the company has operations. Sasol has in these two municipalities, and many across the country, continued to invest in education and development skills through an array of outreach programmes and donations. For more information, visit www.sasolbursaries.com. Applications close on 27 May 2022.This post was sponsored by Sasol and produced by Adspace Studio.  