Residents of Mganduzweni outside White River in Mpumalanga have burnt down properties belonging to the suspects linked to the murder of Bontle Mashiyane. They started with the house belonging to an Inyanga who is alleged to be involved in the murder of Mashiyane. They alleged that some of Mashiyane's body parts were found in the house of the Inyanga who has been taken in for question. The residents continued to burn down houses belonging to two of Mashiyane's neighbours. This happened a few hours after Mashiyane's alleged killers made a brief court appearance at the KaBokweni Magistrate Court on Monday (23 May) Collen Hlongwane (36), Ntombikayise Mokoena (40) and Thapelo Ngomane (25) are facing charges of rape, murder and kidnapping. The trio has since abandoned their bail. The residents who spoke on condition of anonymity told Daily Sun that they want to attend to all the properties belonging to all the suspects as well as those that have been taken in for questioning. They said they are targeting the houses of the suspects because one of them used to join the family as well as the community when they went to search for Bontle. " That woman pretended to be concerned knowing very well that she was involved in the gruesome murder of the young girl. We are burning their houses to let them know that they are not welcomed in this community. Whatever belongs to them must be destroyed, "said one resident Another resident added that they will not live with people who target their children for rituals. " We are saying enough is enough, they must not come back here," said the resident. Mashiyane was reported missing on 30 April, Her mutilated body was found dumped not far from her home. Police say her body was found without eyes, tongue and ears. It is alleged that the suspects confessed that they sold Mashiyane's body parts for rituals. Mpumalanga Community Safety spokesman, Moeti Mmusi has since condemned the incident and called for calm. He said the community should allow the court proceedings to unfold.