AS the continent celebrates Africa Day, the issues of
tensions between foreign nationals and South Africans could not be avoided. There have been several protests from various groups against
illegal foreign nationals in the country, with some fingered to be behind
crimes like drug dealing, murder and human trafficking. Amir Shiek Chairman of the Africa Diaspora Forum admitted
the three are rotten elements amongst the migrants who are coming into South
Africa. Sheik told Daily Sun, “Truly speaking there are a lot, not
all South Africans are good and not all migrants are good.” Sheik was speaking at the Africa Day event hosted in Yeoville
in Joburg. He said, “There are a lot of us, migrants who are abusing
the hospitality and generosity extended to us, to some extent defraud the
systems of the county. “South Africa is one of the hospitable nations that one can
find themselves in. In terms of Democracy, it's actually the best in the
country. Though he conceded that some bad apples came to South Africa
for untoward reasons, he said that it is not all. “The only thing we don’t want is generalisation.” He added, “My message to them is that does not make the
situation difficult for the migrants, do not be a parasite, but find yourself
to be an asset to this country so that you can be part of the rainbow nation in
South Africa.” Gauteng MEC of Sports and Recreation, Mbali Hlophe called
all Africans to come together and unite. “We must do unite for the revival of this continent. If all
the continents were to shut down, Africa would survive without having to depend
on somebody else.” Hlophe added, “With regards to the protests that we have
seen, it’s a huge concern for us, but we appreciate that at the heart of the
protests that we witnessed is economic disparities.” “If you look at the various organisations that are coming
and their leaders, they speak about how foreign nationals are taking their jobs
and that there should be some jobs that are designated to locals.” "Africa is a mineral-rich continent. The unity is not
just for the benefit of South Africa, it is for the benefit of all of us,"
Hlophe said.